text,label
i don't know how esps and from rewrite ended up in the same sentence. esps do not need from rewrite because they can do dkim signing. the incentives are all against them using or allowing from rewrite. taking business from criminal clients does not include allowing one client to impersonate another client or a non-client. such behavior would hurt the revenue of the esp.,0
"the number of people who could write the same as below but substitute crh for srv6 is much bigger. because the number of srv6 installations is much bigger. if they would become proprietary then it would be even more harmful. it is exactly the essence of this 2y old dilemma: nobody sees a win-win solution. andrew, sorry, but you are not proposing it too. what you are proposing: the minority would win, the majority would lose. i do not understand why this dispute still exists. imho: it was decided by ietf at the time when srh has been promoted to rfc 8754. from that time, carriers chosen rfc believes that it is standard. it would be not fair to say to them now that ietf has changed the mind rfc 8754 is a dead end. carriers that have chosen to implement personal draft (draft-bonica-6man-comp-rtg-hdr) were probably aware that it is a proprietary solution and may stay proprietary forever. the problem could potentially hang indefinitely. it would aggravate over time because more and more installations would diverge to incompatible solutions. we are losing precious time. the more time the more painful would be the decision. dear chairs, if all augments are presented (i am not positive about it) then maybe voting? for you to see who is the minority and who is the majority. not a good resolution for a technical dispute, but it is not purely technical, right? another possibility is to improve convergence: not to choose the final solution immediately, but cancel any current one from consideration then discuss only what is left. ps: it is my personal opinion. i am far from the srv6 team in huawei. just this problem is so big for the community: 240 personal drafts stuck in the queue (in different wgs) waiting for ng data plane for sr over ipv6. i could not imagine how big activity would start in the whole ietf after the data plane would be decided.",-1
"i do not support the adoption. i am concerned that we are in the danger of re-inventing igp multi-topology with flex-algo. i do not think it is necessary. if we have the requirements, we can either directly use the multi-topology or extend flex-algo without change its principle.",-1
"sebastian, i think people are well aware of your own thoughts. this email is part of a thread on the planned working group adoption of draft-white-tsvwg-l4sops.",0
"draft-ietf-abc-protocol-06 neglects the importance of graceful degradation under adverse network conditions. the lack of a congestion control mechanism, as highlighted in section 5.2, puts the protocol at risk of severe performance degradation in congested networks. a robust congestion control strategy is essential for ensuring the protocol's reliability in practical deployments. cannot support the draft without addressing this critical concern.",-1
"the alterations proposed in draft-ietf-lmn-protocol-05 inadvertently introduce a backward compatibility issue with previous versions (section 7.2). the lack of a migration plan for existing deployments jeopardizes the smooth transition to the updated protocol. authors should provide a comprehensive strategy for ensuring backward compatibility to avoid disruption. until this is addressed, objecting to the proposed changes.",-1
"thanks, please see below some minor points, otherwise it looks good to me.",1
"i'd like to add my support in favor of publishing the draft-ietf-dnssd-srp. i have read and reviewed the draft in detail (including the latest version) and i think it is good and ready to be published. srp is a solution which is intended for use/adoption in thread mesh networks. the use of unicast packets by srp makes it a preferred and more efficient approach. in openthread (open source) project, we have implemented the srp client and server (per the draft spec) which are available at:",1
"the session(s) that you have requested have been scheduled. below is the scheduled session information followed by the original request. dtn session 1 (2:00 requested) friday, 12 november 2021, session i 1200-1400 room name: room 8 size: 508 - icalendar: [link] request information: working group name: delay/disruption tolerant networking area name: transport area session requester: rick taylor number of sessions: 1 length of session(s): 2 hours number of attendees: 30 conflicts to avoid: people who must be present:",0
"in my world (government pki systems), the ra doesn't get to do that. either the csr is accepted or it is rejected. the ca has a profile it follows, if the csr is missing things, the ca adds them before the certificate is signed. the ra can do none of that. in our case, most ras are actually people, so there can be a back channel to the requestor which can be used to sort it all out. how this all happens in the case of 'little things', i don't know. we do have a 'portal' for devices, but it would probably be quite 'heavy' for your use cases.",0
"i oppose adoption of this draft by the add wg. here are the reasons: - this is a dns binding, and belongs in the dnsop wg - this is a sibling to the https-svc draft, which is a dnsop wg proposal/draft - the two add drafts listed may require some sort of dns svcb binding, but more input on what the requirements should be for the dns svcb binding - there are other drafts in dprive and dnsop that either require, or provide, a dns svcb binding - those other dprive/dnsop drafts have requirements not met by the add draft - there are some incompatibilities between this draft and the corresponding dnsop draft i would propose first moving this draft to dnsop, and then having reviews done there by the participants, prior to any wg adoption call.",-1
"the session(s) that you have requested have been scheduled. below is the scheduled session information followed by the original request. masque session 1 (2:00 requested) monday, 21 march 2022, afternoon session ii 1430-1630 room name: grand park hall 1 size: 190 - icalendar: [link] request information: working group name: multiplexed application substrate over quic encryption area name: transport area session requester: christopher wood number of sessions: 1 length of session(s): number of attendees: 100 conflicts to avoid: people who must be present:",0
"the igp knows many things. i object to adding things to the lsdb that arent already there. if people want to leak things outside of the area, i object to that. i know that people do it already. yes, there are valid cases where its necessary and there are tools to do it. people abuse the privilege and then wonder why their igp has indigestion. go figure. i object to adding negative liveness to the lsdb because of the scale and because it adds scale during failures. my understanding is that n node failures would result in o(n) bytes added to the lsdb. if someone has a way to compress that information to o(1), i (and claude shannon) would be interested.",-1
"apologies for my late comments. i have read the document, and i think it is addressing an important problem and provides a useful contribution to reduce vulnerability; i recommend its adoption. that being said, let me mention that, with some colleagues, we are working on a possible future enhancements to roas. in particular, these enhancements involve an improvement to the maxlength mechanism, which may provide an efficient way allowing operators to announce sub-prefixes if/when the need arises ([link], to foil hijack and esp. ddos attacks). i'm also having sidebar discussions about this with the authors of this draft. but i think (and i think all of us do) that this idea, even if it turns out useful, should not delay the publication of the current proposal. obviously, any such change will require considerable discussion, evaluation, refinement and adoption period.",1
"just a reminder that location in emergency calls can be carried in a mime body, as well as what we call “additional data” and protecting that against meddling and spoofing is very important. there are people looking at this specific issue, but a more generic way to protect a mime body would be helpful i think. from my point of view, we don’t need different mechanisms for different mime types, but we might need different attestation and attestation sources for different mime types.",0
"we have recently submitted an update for the draft ""proxy operations for coap group communication"". [link] the document details the operations of proxies supporting coap group communication and addresses the issues identified in [1]. in particular, a client can send a unicast coap group request to the proxy including a new option to indicate to the proxy the time period to collect responses. also a new option is included in the servers' responses, to enable the client to separate and identify the multiple responses it receives via the proxy. following what discussed during the core interim at [2], this update covers especially the following points. 1) the caching model at the proxy is now fully defined in this document (see section 7). this has built on preliminary content originally in draft-ietf-core-groupcomm-bis and now moved here, with additional improvements and clarifications as suggested especially by christian amsss. 2) added further clarifications on how the proxy forwards back responses to the client ""as they come"", handling also possible multiple responses to a same group request from a same server in the group. 3) the appendix ""using oscore between client and proxy"" has been removed. at ietf 110 [3], it was agreed to have such an item separately and better defined in a separate draft, which is now available at [4] and is referred by this document. comments are very welcome!",0
"as a nit, lo0/lo is almost always 1, because ""0"" means no scope :-) [if we could go back to 1985 and change bsd, we could make them name it lo1 :-)]",0
"concerns persist regarding the security implications of the updates proposed in draft-ietf-uvw-authentication-08. the revised cryptographic algorithms in section 5.1 are insufficiently vetted, lacking a thorough security analysis. the potential vulnerabilities identified in the recent review pose a significant threat to the protocol's integrity. unless these security issues are thoroughly addressed, cannot support the document's progression.",-1
"if the network operator controls the endpoints (typical case inside an organization), it is easy (well, at least, possible) to do so. if it does not (case of an internet access provider), then it must not force the clients to use a specific resolver. today, the three drafts draft-pauly-add-deer, draft-btw-add-home and draft-box-add-requirements are, in my opinion, quite ""neutral"". they describe technical ways to send information to the client and does not say what to do with it. this is reasonable but my concern, from the beginning of the add effort, has always been that, should they be published as standards track rfcs, they will be regarded as mandatory-to-use ""the ietf said you must not use doh/dot except towards a resolver retrieved by these mechanisms"". this is why threat modelling and security considerations are very important.",0
"kio, i'm happy to defer to your document, since you published first. sorry i didn't know about it. if you are amenable, i'll replace my doc with a pointer to yours, and send you a pr with some suggestions for js examples. ",1
"i understand the requirement, my comment is simply that this is undefined. grasp synch is a discover/request/response/close sequence. as i understand unsolicited synch, it is [link] that means keeping a tcp connection open indefinitely, and keeping corresponding connection state at each end indefinitely. alternatively, it would mean designing a way to use udp unicast for this, but there must still be state at both ends, indefinitely. i never wanted to make grasp synch or negotiation use udp, because each time i tried to design an implementation, i found that i had to create state at both ends to make the udp session work properly - in effect, much of the work that tcp does anyway. so i think the way to implement unsolicited synch is probably to use tcp.",0
"i also flat out reject the premise of this draft. it introduces a pseudo as-like proxy which now has all the requirements of an as and more. while as sdks provide easy ways for client uis to effectively deal with communication via the as, there's no way for the as to provide standard as specific services prototypes to support bff. that means that everyone is writing their own bff as-proxy. additionally, i too am lacking the clarity on the *whythe only thing mentioned in the draft is which isn't ever justified, but even if we accept that as a true premise, what are these as doing that even require a bff? hypothetically you could argue that the auth code flow requires a bff and that's required for user login since implicit flow no longer exists, but that isn't true. you can use client side pkce for validation of these via not requiring the client secret in the front end, and then the problem there is solved. and if you argue that this can't be done, then the solution is introducing a better way to handle this so that a bff for as flows don't have to exist. so what concrete problem is this solving? there was also the argument of *there are lots of people doing thiswhich is always a terrible argument, but even if we do permit that in the discussion, we still need to answer the *whywhy are developers creating bff for their frontends to communicate with an as. is it because as are terrible, is it because *front ends as a service* are terrible, [link] until we know why this is happening concretely, i don't think we should encourage further use of a pattern rife with potential security risks by telling everyone how you can do it (because the guidance we are offering doesn't even slightly increase safety). further, even if we were to accept this pattern and want to create a standard around it, we are effectively creating an as proxy here, which means we should require it to act like an as, and delegate the specification of resources, endpoints, terminology, and patterns to existing or future as related rfcs. (we already have a problem with the current draft as it attempts to redefine and introduce new terms/patterns that have the same functionality as existing ones in the as, yet fail to capture the full importance of the original rfcs. this is bad duplication). and therefore in conclusion we should focus only on the aspects that are absolutely required which aren't already present in some form in existing as related rfcs, but what are those? the one counterpoint to all of this is the potential introduction of domain specific *cookie* language (which doesn't exist in the current draft). concretelylet's add a response_type=cookieto as to support domain first-party cookies and session management. when we built our as we explicitly added this so that services can use the jwt found in the httponly samesite=strict cookie as a security measure against xss attacks that attempt to exfiltrate access tokens.",-1
i object the adoption of this document,-1
"we have received a request from the authors of draft-ietf-pce-segment-routing-policy-cp for an early code point allocation. rfc 7120 requires to meet the following criteria to proceed: b. the format, semantics, processing, and other rules related to handling the protocol entities defined by the code points (henceforth called ""specifications"") must be adequately described in an internet-draft. c. the specifications of these code points must be stable; [link], if there is a change, implementations based on the earlier and later specifications must be seamlessly interoperable. if anyone believes that the draft does not meet these criteria, or believes that early allocation is not appropriate for any other reason, please send an email to the pce mailing list explaining why. if the chairs hear no objections by monday, february 15th, we will kick off the early allocation request.",0
"we are a week past the confirmation deadline, hearing no-one against the adoption and given the existing support i think it is time to adopt this document. the authors are recommended to create a repository ""oscore-key-limits"" in the core-wg github.",0
"* imo it's fine to contact the authors of an original rfc and point out that an update is needed. but it's really presumptuous and rude to appoint oneself a co-author of a bis document and suggest that the original authors should become co-authors. imo that should be a last resort option, for the cases where the original authors aren't willing to revise their document, not the first suggestion made. i am not sure i understand you. are you saying that once an rfc is authored, any bis work must first be offered to the original authors? if so, what about when the wg has been shut (lamps instead of pkix)? or this case, where someone wrote a draft and the wg adopted it. should the wg then ask the new author to wait until theyve heard from the original authors? in this case, was i mistaken to submit a draft without first contacting jeff and peter before doing anything?",-1
as a coauthor i support the adopting of the docs. they provide a good basis on the element to look for regarding srv6 compression and define the analysis of the different proposals out there.,1
"the suggested amendments in draft-ietf-xyz-protocol-07 seem misguided. the proposed header compression algorithm not only fails to deliver the expected reduction in overhead but also introduces a potential security vulnerability (section 4.2). a recent analysis indicates a 15% increase in header size under certain scenarios, undermining the draft's central goal. please reconsider the algorithm design and address the security concerns before pushing for adoption.",-1
"i want to come back to this topic as a new thread. as i understand things, the difference on android is that any app can claim to be a generic web browser and so claim to handle all uris. whereas on ios only specifically vetted apps can claim to be web browsers. is that correct? if so, this does seem like a quite large hole in security of oauth on android. should we be considering a new draft recommending alternative measures (such as attestation) on android? presumably the same issue is also true on most desktop os?",0
"what's wrong with what i already proposed? your analysis is backwards. modulo the few psds that have published records for psd dmarc and for receivers that check for it, the dmarc results for mail to such domains is none, not fail.",-1
"welcome, matt! and apologies ahead of time for having to deal with us - you know already how unruly we can be. i am likely to remind you in the future that you signed up for this :-) thank you for signing up, and looking forward to working with you in your new role.",1
"i believe we are on the same page, but the approach is a little bit different. see a few comments inline[ko], please.",1
"each party must send a close_notify"" alert before closing its write side of the connection, unless it has already sent some error alert.""",0
"*/* last email on this thread. it is clear that some people are so stuck here to their beliefs that no matter what others say it will not change their mind/> as you see, a single application (flex) can support multiple topologies but that is orthogonalthe entire topic is to make support of multiple topologies easy - and it is not orthogonal. - one option is to signal its metrics with unique bits - one per topology. - the other option is to signal metrics to be applicable to any app which chooses to use it then trim the pool with affinities. the subject draft is about latter. i was (also) suggesting the former. currently what seems to be the case is operationally not user friendly mix of both to build arbitrary topology. the end, robert.",-1
this work is useful in sd-wan scenarios. i support the adoption of this draft.,1
"i am reading this now. its good, i like it. one nit; should section [link] be titled cipher suites for tls [link] ? in section [link], the ([link], even more than a few hours) should probably replace it with (in some cases, even as little as a few hours) but it would be really helpful for guidance on picking the time. in section [link], doesnt the stapling reference need additions for cert status for tls [link] and okay if you dont want to mention certificate transparency, but either include that or make explicit that for xxx reasons youre not doing so. hope this helps.",1
i think this is an improvement.,1
"well said, ian and martin. i agree that no change is the right outcome here.",1
thanks lucas! separate emails to boost the visibility of all design changes will be most appreciated!,1
"this is an excellent optimization concept for rr scalability as well as limiting the number of paths per prefix reflected to the clients which can be enormous. verizon as well as other internet providers can take advantage of this solution and help reduce the number of paths being reflected to clients. i support advancement of this draft. minor comments on the draft text below: introduction paragraph 4 - i dont think hot potato routing is ever desirable where the rr is making the best path decision instead of the client is ever better in the case where the rr is not in the forwarding plane. the evolving model of intra-domain network design has enabled deployments of route reflectors outside of the forwarding path. initially this model was only employed for new services, [link] ip vpns [rfc4364 <[link]>], however it has been gradually extended to other bgp services including ipv4 and ipv6 internet. in such environments, hot potato routing policy remains desirable. has this feature been implemented by any vendor to test the viability and cpu resources necessary related to multiple decision processes due to igp location change?",1
"you are not improving convergence. you are propagating liveness. the fact that this relates to convergence in the overlay is irrelevant to the igp. you are not retaining scalability. you are damaging it. you are proposing flooding a prefix per router that fails. if there is a mass failure, that would result in flooding a large number of prefixes. the last thing you want when there is a mass failure is additional load, exacerbating the situation. you are signaling the (lack of) liveness of a remote node. i propose that we instead use existing signaling mechanisms to do this. multi-hop bfd seems like an obvious choice. if you greatly dislike that for some reason, i would suggest that we create a proxy liveness service, advertised by the abr. this would allow correspondents to register for notifications. the abr could signal these unicast when it determines that the specific targets are unreachable.",-1
"rfc8994 explained the main reasons that acp is based on ipv6 addressing are simplicity and scale. i wonder if there was/is any interest in defining and deploying acp in ipv4-only network without requiring ipv6 enablement. for example, as ula and link-local address schemes are not available in ipv4 networks, whether and how to establish the acp channel? (rfc3927 defines ipv4 link-local address config, but it is not a full functional substitute of ipv6 link-local address in ipv4 world in my understanding.) there might be discussions and thoughts in this aspect in earlier days in the community. i would be very appreciated if anyone can point them out.",0
"looks good! all patches look good to me. thank you, and thanks for the clarifications about the js reference, you can leave this as is, and well see if anybody else has more feedback during ietf last call. i am ok with the last patch, but just make sure you reflect that change in appendix b, so that it is clear that it is only clarifications and it is not doing any major modifications. also, i was made aware that the document might need to be more specific about byte order marks (bom), and clarify if boms are allowed, required or acceptable. this would not fall into the fixing 4329, but in the necessary clarification category. i think we can get more input about this during ietf last call. in the meantime, please go ahead and merge all the prs, and publish the new version.",1
"one thing to consider here is that this is not e2e oam notification. based on the discussion of scale, there could be 1000+ remote pes that need to know about the outage. also, as peter pointed out, the target audience is a proper audience of the igp routers receiving the summary advertisement.",0
"that seems like a reasonable proposal to me! in terms of clarity on the other points that have come up in this thread, i double checked and it looks like we’ve got good text stating that: 1. the preferred_address cid is interchangeable with any other cid acquired via ncid frames 2. the active_connection_id_limit (and the set of “active” cids) includes the preferred_address and initial cid so that covers everything i think we’ve seen so far",1
"there is a lot of useful work in core's charter which is not getting done. i probably have even more wounds on this than you. but, we won't get it done here. let's not say we are going to try. it's because i think it's useful that i think it deserves its own place. when a wg has so many focuses it has no focuses. i point to opsawg. i think that we all agree that the existing charter would never get approved today. that's why rechartering is scary.",-1
"it is not: the rest-level (here coap) content-type is the media-type of the whole thing (as packaged in cose-sign1), while the cose content-type is just the media-type of the payload. except in somewhat unlikely cases, these are not the same. no, no, no… you just created busywork for interoperability testing. please decide for one option here and stick with that!",-1
"as discussed in the ietf110 meeting, we start a two weeks adoption call on draft-tgraf-ipfix-mpls-sr-label-type-07: [link] please respond with your comments and thoughts on this draft. we will conclude on april 7, 2021.",0
"i support the adoption of the draft. it provides a suitable solution for the very relevant topic of inter-domain constrained path setup, which will become even more relevant in the next future.",1
"i went through the review and created issues for the ones that were not covered by existing issues or prs. some issues, such as issue 58 on nits contain several of the comments below. issues may be discussed on the list or in github issues, however resolutions for any normative or substantial text not discussed on the list are to be posted to the list before resolution. therefore it would be better to have substantial changes discussed on the mailing list.",0
"i think there can be some value in making them configurable. [link], if you know you network is really stable and never drops packets, you can set a really high interval and rely on triggered updates for the in-between stuff, thus saving some overhead. conversely, if you know devices have a tendency to drop off the network with no warning you can set a really low interval to quickly flush out disappearing devices by timeout, at the cost of more signalling overhead. doing such things require operational knowledge, so setting them by the management interface seems reasonable. on the other hand, we also want implementations to be able to make decisions about things on their own: [link], babeld will try to detect if an interface is wireless, and if so automatically apply different parameters to it, which includes changing the intervals (iirc). that should also be allowed, so the information model should leave room for implementations to pick their own settings as [link]",0
it is a useful document. i support it.,1
"please find below my review of this document. i appreciate you and the wg discussing the details, but there is more work needed to be done before starting the ietf lc (details inline). just one high-level comment: it is not clear to me why all the behaviors from rfc8986 are not covered in this document. if some are not applicable, or are covered elsewhere, please explain in the text.",0
"you can also set the domain of a cookie to actually be a host (subdomain). does that also prevent subdomains from clobbering root directory cookies? ps: i realize this is close to off topic, my last comment on this. - jim manico",0
"i'm a colleague of pieter and mike, working directly on the service code. i wanted to chime in with a few comments on the thread, related to a few of the responses on this thread. in particular, i'll mention a) mobile landscape b) aaron's proposed threat c) pre-registered keys d) authorization code re-use. one general comment is a short summary of the mobile authentication landscape. mobile apps increasingly authenticate in os-provided web views with shared state, [link] apple's wkwebview. here then: 1. the user opens an application 2. the application uses wkwebview to open a operation system web view with [link]&[link] 3. the user authenticates (or get single-signed on) from the system web view and the web view returns an authorization code to the application 4. the application exchanges the authorization code for access and refresh tokens [link] with dpop with the propose dpop_jkt extension, there is another step to generate a key in the os keychain between 1 and 2, and a dpop signature added in 4. i think there's something very valuable in being able to say that all tokens(ac, rt, at) that appear in the process's memory space are bound up to the security level of the operation system's keychain. such a guarantee completely removes entire classes of threats - [link] what if the crash dumps are sent to a os-company / phone-manufacturer / it department web server whenever the application crashes? not a problem - the tokens are all bound. aaron mentioned another threat (manipulating url creation using a browser extension) focused at the beginning of the flow. this analysis all sounds right to me. however, i'd comment that there are already a few mechanisms for protecting the beginning of the flow from a few different attacks. in addition to the threat aaron describes, i also want to consider the ""rouge ca"" threat - [link] an attacker compromises the corporate ca and modifies requests (substituting the attacker's dpop key). in standards space, there are two solutions for these types of threats already. openid connect ([link]) describes a solution for signed requests (using the ""request"" parameter) that would protect from either the rouge ca or malicious browser extension - though unfortunately, for dpop keys, this really only works for confidential clients. and then web standards like the deprecated hpkp ([link]) would mitigate the rouge ca threat. outside of standards space, i'm aware of proprietary solutions with similar goals (the windows prt protocol, which puts authorization parameters in a signed request on the token endpoint - see [link] for an overview or [link] for the specific request message that might contain dpop_jkt). i think of dpop_jkt _not_ as a protection for the beginning of the flow, but rather as ""glue"" to connect _whatever_ protection at the beginning of the flow with the dpop protection at the end of the flow. we're still interested in doing more to protect the beginning of the flow - but probably not in the context of dpop - but we think it makes sense to standardize this connecting piece in dpop. a few folks (warren)",0
"this draft presents a peculiar way of bringing something similar to bridge-domain/bridge-table concepts into [link] one significant problem, in my opinion, is that you not only introduce a new dataplane dependency; but also propose to _redefine_ vxlan-gpe header semantics (instead of just using it, or geneve). i would assume you have to go to nvo3 wg for the proposed vxlan-gpe format changes (either with the full draft or splitting it into 2 parts (control & data plane)). additionally, i would like to see more text on the motivation of the proposed solution. in the abstract you make a point that this draft proposes a new solution which can simplify the deployment of layer-3 accessible evpn service. -> this simplicity is not obvious at all, and one may argue that this solution is more complex compared to the existing ones (such as draft inter-subnet-forwarding with multiple ip-vrfs)",-1
"i suppose another use case might be a fast re-authentication mechanism for gss mechanisms that involve a lot of round trips (such as eap). of course this could be handled within the mechanism itself or as a pseudo-mechanism but, in practice, neither have been deployed.",0
"i support the adoption of this draft. i think, the current transport network aware mobility for 5g draft defines well the framework for mapping the 5g mobile systems slice and service types (ssts) to the corresponding underlying network paths in the mobility domain. this framework allows us to expand the network characteristics beyond mobility domain to main end to end traffic behavior. the current draft has been expanded to have separate sub-ranges under each sst to provide the te path in preserving the security characteristics for certain mobile traffic. that is an important aspect for sd-wan hybrid use cases where traffic needs to be characterized for secure vs. un-secure tunnel in the data network. i think authors addressed several comments in the version 08 and it is in a decent shape. as a contributor, i support the wg adoption to continue our discussion and improve it further.",1
"the issue, here, is not about parsing header fields. it is about generating them. and rfc 821 specifies creation of some header fields. this also is about delivery, which is when for get created. but since you raised [link] actually, this highlights why the smtp specification should not deal with delivery issues, per se, and should leave that to an mda specification. the smtp specification gets a lot simpler if it stops trying to cover the entire range of end-to-end handling issues and just sticks to what it is actually used for. delivery has gotten far more complex than this specification does or can deal with. the 'for' clause gets into the delivery assessment issue. since it's part of the received specification, which does apply to normal relaying, perhaps just say that there must be no more than one for clause and it contains only one address. the physics of that will adequately constrain its use. indeed it is. in some cases, unless special smtp has nothing at all to do with gateway functionality. zero. trying to touch that topic, in a mail relaying protocol specification, is a problematic distraction. especially given how irrelevant and incomplete the text is to actual gatewaying behavior. i suspect it's not because of my gender, but i frequently look for the for clause. i get mail under a variety of different addresses. as do many others. so excluding that utility is problematic. i don't understand how the above paragraph is relevant to the smtp specification. mixing submission with discussion of the for clause makes no sense to me. in any event, i also don't understand what privacy problem is being claimed. the 'given' has not been clearly established here. so the premise needs some work. because it is used and it is useful. d/",-1
"i think youre right that some of the foundational concepts have been around for a while. possibly the difference with slicing is the level of slos that are being offered, and the granularity of connectivity constructs within the service. the first of these takes us a step beyond vpns to enhanced vpns, but the second takes us into bundled services. the language about slicing being driven by 5g is inherited text. i am concerned that it comes close to marketing hype, but on the other hand it is trye that the concept (and name) of network slicing has received a huge boost as a result of the discussion of 5g. having reread your email, however, i dont see a specific request for a change to the document.",0
i support the wglc on the segment routing policy draft. this is an important draft. it is a well written and ready for publication.,1
"could you update the draft to reflect the new pseudocode, below. it is essential to the 6man review.",0
"this is great work that's fairly widely deployed, so i think the wg should adopt it.",1
"dear michael, thank you very much for your contributions to tcpm, including the effort spent for co-chairing, reviewing documents, and improving documents! it has always been a pleasure to work with you. hopefully you will also find time to review at least some of the documents in tcpm. definitely take some time and enjoy spending time with your daughter.",1
"the dpop spec currently defines how to obtain a dpop-bound token via token endpoint invocations (namely, authorization_code and refresh_token grants). but it is also possible to obtain access token prior to code-to-token exchange, via oauth implicit/hybrid flows. do we have any plans to support dpop in authorization endpoint (in addition to token endpoint) and implicit/hybrid flows? is yes, what it might look like? a ""dpop"" request parameter or a ""dpop"" header?",0
"the changes in draft-ietf-pqr-routing-14 introduce a scalability bottleneck. the proposed path selection algorithm in section 3.3 exhibits suboptimal performance in large-scale networks. until scalability concerns are addressed, cannot support the draft's progression.",-1
"right. the intro says about our motivation: [rfc8949] defines a number of cbor tags for common items. tags 260 and 261 were later defined through iana. these tags cover addresses (260), and prefixes (261). tag 260 distinguishes between ipv4, ipv6 and ethernet through the length of the byte string only. tag 261 was not documented well enough to be used. this specification provides a format for ipv6 and ipv4 addresses, prefixes, and addresses with prefixes, achieving an explicit indication of ipv4 or ipv6. prefixes omit trailing zeroes in the address. […] we could expand that a bit more.",0
"yes, i agree that sfc classifier or tunnel endpoint can be a pe router. meanwhile, i assume there are cases that cf/vne runs on non-pe/ce router. for example, in case that sfc is performed within the provider's dc ([link], 5g dn), the ingress gw or tor switch will be a classifier. then, the gw/tor can be called ce or pe? certainly, in mpls world, mpls termination point is conventionally called pe, but i feel pe/ce may not be generally used in dc or any other field. actually, geneve termination point is called tunnel endpoint, and vxlan also use vtep (vxlan tunnel end point), not ce/pe. (sorry if my understanding is [link]) if pe/ce are conceptual entities and can be applied to any cases, not only mpls(sr) networks, i assume that nse and pe/ce are the same. whichever is fine to me.",0
"sure, this is a reasonable comment.",1
"creating lots of special rules makes me feel uncomfortable. is there evidence that people reduce state value spaces a lot and in isolation, [link], they just rev a module to reduce some state value spaces? /js",-1
im pleased to see you respond to this call. i hope others will review this draft regarding inbound max prefix.,1
"thanks for the review, jonathan! i’ve applied your changes to the document where appropriate (will publish an update when posting re-opens). i’ve also called out some discussion points where i don’t yet know what to add to the text.",1
support adoption of this draft in mboned. it is really a valuable document to point out issues of ioam trace option and ioam-dex for multicast traffic and specify methods.,1
"we can definitely start without that general purpose security mechanism being proven, by using other proven mechanisms to solve the same problem. there's no reason we need to depend on nor utilize httpsig for solving the problems hoped to be achieved with this draft. but we do need to stipulate concretely what should be solved by the draft and then we can discuss what's the right approach. if we are saying dpop is the right approach to solve it, we have a draft already (we would need to discuss whether an alternative is the right approach or reusing that one/making adjustments). perhaps dpop isn't the right approach, and maybe it is, but we need to start at the beginning. right now it just seems we are haphazardly throwing out an implementation for a draft standard for the sake of implementing that standard. ""there are people that want to use it"" isn't productive, what is productive is describing the core problem that they are facing, the why, and attacking it problem-first, not solution-first. it also sounds like we want to justify that work with an authored rfc from the oauth wg. okay, we can push that work, but it needs to be focused on core problems and solutions revolving in the oauth space, and not done in a way for the sole purpose of justifying the work another draft is setting up. i don't think any one is doubting the benefits that could be gained, but we should be doubting if this is the right way from an oauth perspective and the direction we want to go. we should enumerate those, work on refining what is in scope and going from there. the problem with the current draft, is that it doesn't give us an adequate starting point, sure we can push everything to the wg to solve every open point, but i for one, would like to see at least a partial draft that attempts to outline the problem and include a solution which supports a majority of use cases, without being a very niche collaboration with the existing signature draft.",-1
"the average sip invite size for the us pstn is 1kb without identity. this was working great with udp for most customers (do not confuse them with sip standard implementors). when these people start seeing an extra 2-3% of call failures, they blame everybody but not their pstn provider sbc vendor. the only thing they care about and need is to keep their phones ringing and calls completing.",-1
"i support the wg adoption. this draft describes procedures for various sr-mpls and srv6 encapsulations for ip/udp based simple twamp, including different pm modes on top of what is specified in rfc 8762. it adds a very much needed pm toolkit in sr environment (both sr-mpls and srv6).",1
"you mean if only the nam field changes? such as if there's a civic address with nam but no other address elements, and nam changes? or a civic address with nam as well as other elements sufficient to form a valid address on their own? what text would you add to the document to make it clear under what circumstances a lost server might save a uri and know that the location in the query might be invalidated but not know for sure?",0
great stuff. please let me know if at some point in time youd want to home it in rtgwgics would indeed be helpful.,1
"that is why our rules say what they say. the draft imho confuses the issue. it talks about how participants might infringe competition law *if* they break the ietf rules by not acting as individual contributors. introduction, sentence 1, says ""standards development frequently requires collaboration between competitors."" that's simply not what the ietf does. it would apply to sdos that are membership organisations whose members are competing companies. on reflection, the whole document is written from the wrong premise. section 5 starts ""as the ietf is a standards development environment where representatives from competitors are highly likely to be [link]"" wrong. by definition, there are *no* representatatives present. [i believe the original legal advice came at least partly from geoff stewart, and the ibm corporate standards people, who knew a lot about antitrust because of the big antitrust suits against ibm, were also giving advice in those days.] i think the whole draft needs a rewrite on the basis that anyone who acts for their employer in an ietf forum is in breach of the ietf's rules. that should be the starting point, not the two sentences quoted above. i do agree that wg chairs and ads should be advised to shut down any such behaviour. and a description of what might be incorrect behaviour is useful. but the original sin here is acting as a company rep, in direct violation of rfc 2026 and its predecessors.",-1
