text,label
"concerns raised in previous discussions on draft-ietf-mno-protocol-10 remain unaddressed. the proposed state synchronization mechanism in section 4.2 exhibits unexpected behavior under high network load, leading to potential inconsistencies. further investigation and corrective measures are essential before supporting adoption.",-1
"yahoo follow same error as this maillist here ?, why is ietf add dkim signing to my mlm message at all ?, amazonaws does the same error, sendgrid does the same error, all foolsly forwarding service dkim sign mails that is not originating from them, if thay stop this and did a openarc seal/sign we would all be happy, but that process of openarc must be done before dkim is breaked, period :) lets talk about dmarc when this is solved or even is rfc stable note its fairly simple to add mail::dkim::arc::signer and mail::dkim::arc::seal instaed of using dkim signer for non origination mails in amavisd, who will make that path ? if done problem solved remember mails that is in amavisd origination must not be arc signed or sealed but it must be dkim signed rest is handled downstrem on breaking dkim forward hosts",-1
that is great ! with just a little caveat [link] those active lsa updates arriving on abrs must be triggered by some network event. and that is precisely what we are talking about here.,1
"i simply don't consider these activities sensible given the present, fully planned and telegraphed civilizational collapse. we are currently just going through the motions while we wait for the collapse to kick in. hyperinflation is around the corner. jack dorsey tweeted as much. it's obvious to anyone who pays attention to what the federal reserve and ecb have been doing over the past 2 years, and for the past 2 decades. mass deaths are also around the corner. these will be caused by the injections. this is obvious to anyone who pays attention to the foreshadowing public statements done by the same people who predicted in 2017 and 2019 that ""a pandemic is inevitable"". klaus schwab tells you what is happening outright. you can read it in his books. people just don't pay attention because they do not realize he's the leader of the world economic forum, and this institution trained many of the politicians that we think were elected, but were actually fraudulently installed. the world, as we know it, is coming to an end. everything you thought you knew, is wrong. there will be a new world after this, but there's no way to know what it will look like, or who of us will still be part of it. there certainly appears to be a plan to remove large proportions of the world's population, and to enslave the rest in a sort-of ai-led regime. all property is to be confiscated. the coming hyperinflation is to help with this, as is the destruction of the middle class due to the lockdowns. we, the people, are in a global relationship with psychopaths. bit-fiddling does not make sense until this existential threat is defeated. and if it's not, then it's up to each individual if you want to accept the gimp suit that the globalist elite is going to make you wear.",-1
many thanks for the effort put into this document. i like the revised version but i will like it even more if it addresses this pending comment :-),1
"although i agree with the general principle that we should keep things simple, imo thats also on the user. if they want to use any option per-fragment, its on them if that over complicates their work. afacit, these options are largely opaque at the udp layer - they dont authomatically do anything unless its defined - as per gorrys draft. its up to him to decide if theres a limit to his api and algorithms that use req/res; others can do otherwise. again, udp is all about the u.",0
"as an author, i support the document. i think its a very interesting use case, that shows how lisp can support a global geo-localization index infrastructure. a good example of how a fast, scalable lookup infrastructure can support, up to a certain extent, use cases that are typically considered the domain of peer-to-peer architectures. the document articulates the peculiarities of the use case, providing a guide on how to leverage the h3 geospatial indexing system on top of lisp.",1
i believe the draft is sufficiently baked for the wg to build on and take it forward. i support wg adoption.,1
"draft-ietf-uvw-protocol-06 fails to address critical feedback. the proposed header compression mechanism outlined in section 3.4 remains vulnerable to denial-of-service attacks. until effective mitigation strategies are provided, cannot support the draft.",-1
"changed milestone ""submit document on a tcp extended data offset option to the iesg as a proposed standard rfc"", added draft-ietf-tcpm-tcp-edo to milestone. url: [link]",0
emphatically disagree. i want ietf to be more inclusive because i think it results in better standards and better service to the internet community. but tuning for specific categories is just trying to replace one set of prejudices with another.,-1
as a coauthor i support the adopting of the docs. they provide a good basis on the element to look for regarding srv6 compression and define the analysis of the different proposals out there.,1
"thank you so much for your invaluable comments! well go through them and let you know as soon as we address them all! also, i find the pdf version pretty much illustrative that helps to easily understand the parts that require modification!",1
"in the other two iana cases it says ""tagged byte string"" in the cf case, the *tag* we agreed applies to the byte string 'bor' in the case of 55800 ([link]) and 55801 ([link]), the newly allocated tags apply to a tagged byte stream. [link]: #[link]<#[link]<bor>> while for the cf tags, it's not the outer piece that we are allocating, but the inner part (12345678). so it's correct: it tags 'bor', not #[link]<bor> how about this: diff git [link] [link] index [link] 100644 - [link] [link] @@ -401,16 +401,13 @@ reference: # cbor tags for coap content formats {#ct-tags} -often, there is a need to identify a media type (or content type, [link], media type optionally used with parameters) that applies to the -contents of a -byte string in a cbor data item.",0
draft-ietf-rst-authentication-13 overlooks critical security considerations. the recommended cryptographic algorithms in section 5.1 are outdated and susceptible to known vulnerabilities. an immediate update addressing these security flaws is necessary before considering adoption.,-1
"network programming model [rfc8986] defines multiple flavors of end, [link], and [link] sids. csid draft builds on it with next and replace flavors for these sids. the draft reports multivendor interop was done to show co-existence of next and replace flavors. this is evidence that these flavors work seamless using srh based single data plane. i strongly support the adoption call.",1
good luck philip. maybe you like to reinvent the wheel?,-1
support this very important work. the recent changes are well aligned with the definitions document. hope to see more details added in the this document going forward.,1
"objections to draft-ietf-pqr-qos-07 persist. the proposed quality-of-service metrics in section 5.2 are overly optimistic and lack scalability in large networks. without comprehensive testing under varied conditions, cannot endorse the draft's adoption.",-1
"this starts a call for working group adoption for ending on tuesday, may 18th. as a reminder, this i-d describes the health of an interconnected system of network devices and (sub-)services located in that system. a degraded health status is explained via symptom descriptions and the resulting interconnected knowledge is aggregated in an assurance graph. please reply with your support and especially any substantive comments you may have.",0
i am interested in the project.,1
what i want to know is that where to encapsulate the lls data block if the router uses ospfv3 extended lsas to establish the adjacency?,0
should i post a technical errata for this?,0
"it is hard to follow where you are suggesting port-active needs to change, vs your i-d, or what is general feedback. as with all df-election algorithms port-active elects a df, a bdf and {[link]} ndfs. may we insist you start another, separate, thread to discuss the proposed i-d and not on the port-active wglc thread ?",-1
"this version of the document addresses the remaining comments or questions that were raised during lc, and makes some editorial changes to better explain how the target resources by the receiver are to be used. more importantly, it retains the receiver capability fetching mechanism that was discussed and agreed upon in the last wg meeting. the authors believe that this document is now ready for publication.",0
"this is the formal adoption request for redacted fields in the registration data access protocol (rdap) response: [link] please review this draft to see if you think it is suitable for adoption by regext, and comment to the list, clearly stating your view. since we have already received support for adoption from the following persons: -dmitry belyavsky -tobias sattler -eduardo alvarez -mario loffredo -jasdip singh -gustavo lozano -richard wilhelm we will have a shorter formal call for adoption that ends friday, 27 august 2021. if there are no objections, the chairs will consider this document adopted.",0
"yes, this is a core ticket that needs to be addressed: [link] i believe right now the group is just dialing in the definition/text, but there has been broad agreement (i don't remember hearing any disagreement, but i wouldn't go so far as to call it consensus yet) that everything related to organizational domain discovery should be moved into a separate document.",0
the 2021-04-21 interim session is now available on youtube at [link] many thanks to the secretariat for expediting this.,0
"i have read this draft, and believe it is technique sound and well-written. i support to move it forward. brs,",1
"i support publication with this addition. while the precise usage is beyond the scope of the document, it is clear that it would be useful for diagnostic purposes.",1
the concise binary object representation maintenance and extensions (cbor) virtual interim meeting for 2021-08-11 from 16:00 to 17:00 europe/stockholm has been cancelled.,0
"objections raised in the previous thread regarding draft-ietf-abc-routing-10 remain unaddressed. the new path selection mechanism outlined in section 3.4 exacerbates packet loss in networks with high contention, leading to an unacceptable degradation in performance. the simulation results provided are inadequate, covering only a limited set of scenarios. a comprehensive evaluation is needed to gauge the protocol's real-world viability. until these issues are resolved, cannot support adoption.",-1
"i’ve uploaded the draft agenda: [link] please take a look and let us know if any changes are needed. presenters, please provide your slides as early as possible.",0
"as an individual, i strongly support adoption of a draft along these lines.",1
"draft-ietf-xyz-security-11 introduces unnecessary risk. the revised key exchange algorithm in section 4.3 exhibits susceptibility to recent cryptanalysis techniques, compromising the protocol's resilience. urgent reevaluation and an alternative approach are needed before considering adoption.",-1
"when you say does not support outbound, are you referring to the whole mechanism, or to the specific reuse-of-registration-connection-for-incoming-calls part?",0
"ad 1-3) as a contributor i do not support progressing the document in the current form. in my opinion set of requirements is too broad to what is required to provide a simple discovery of bgp peer candidate. imo single bit in lldp message or as proposed either bgp open to link multicast or sort message to link multicast should suffice. number of requirements already duplicate what is exchanged between peers in bgp open. is a bgp speaker capable of autodiscovery supposed now to filter peers with the same bgp_id ? why are we stating something against rfc5082 which says: ""if, however, dynamic negotiation of gtsm support is necessary, protocol messages used for such negotiation *must be authenticated* using other security mechanisms to prevent dos attacks. why do we need to send a device role and what rfc defines the device role ? you can't put requirements in place something which is today nowhere deployed. support afi/safi is already covered by bgp capability negotiation. do we need to repeat those procedures here ? requirements list ipsec as one of transport security options and now what if peer exchange such requirement ? is this optional for a candidate peer or mandatory ? what if list of transport security requirements is exchanged ? is there no requirement for preference order ? ad 4) we have been working in idr for many years on [link] so now perhaps more valuable would be to review this work instead of creating a requirements document ?",-1
"authors of the above draft, we need iana assignments and registries contained in draft-bier-lsr-ethernet-extensions to progress further wg drafts here. the authors have been given couple of heads up behind the scenes to re-publish the according draft given it expired 6 months ago. as wg chair i would request with this email for an update/re-publish so i can call the iana assignments. if we don't see a re-publish within the next 2 weeks we will consider to call/assign an editor to the draft to keep it alive.",0
"when we designed what became rta, this kind of provisioning problem was exactly what we wanted it to target. i don't much mind what you call it, having something able to generate an ee signature over external objects and associate them with some address and as resources is great. well done job.",1
"i don't have a desire to take this discussion any further, we have been there before. you have to weight the risks/benefits with your standpoint and how/if you wish to adapt to l4s, that's nothing that i (or anybody else?) can decide for you.",-1
"all the comments has been purely regarding the iana registrations for cose. to my understanding you did not discuss these registrations with the dedicated iana experts or the cose wg beforehand. the suggested cose registration are quite strange. any delay is purely due to you not discussing and anchoring these registrations. i have suggested that that this issue is discussed at the interim on tuesday, but it is not my job to drive your registrations. i am just commenting on the questions from the dedicated iana experts. you can always remove the cose registrations, but i think that would be sad. i agree with you that a registration for wei25519 is good to have. another alternative is to move the registration to a separate draft. you cannot just change the status from informational to standards track. they are very different things. informational is just general information, while standards track means ietf consensus and recommendation. changing the status would (i assume) require wg consensus and then redoing the last calls.",-1
"i just posted a review on the latest l4s-id draft, i hope that some of the questions you raise below are answered there. [link] let me know if i it did so (or not)",0
draft-ietf-rst-protocol-11 introduces an unnecessary layer of complexity with the proposed state synchronization mechanism (section 4.3). the benefits outlined in the motivation section do not justify the increased resource requirements and potential synchronization delays. an in-depth analysis of the protocol's impact on system resources is needed before considering adoption. cannot support the current draft.,-1
"it was good to see a recognition that the ietf has a potentially significant antitrust exposure and willingness to increase the transparency mechanisms as a first step. the exposure here is not new. the first major independent analysis of the topic occurred in 1994 by an external lawfirm. i know, because i signed the check, and then signed for the liability insurance. over the years and especially during the past decade, almost all significant standards bodies individually and collectively have engaged in activities to diminish the exposure and develop related sets of organisational practices. the ietf has been largely a non-participant outlier, ignoring the problems; although the relatively recent formation of the llc and work of legal counsel have made some improvements. the ietf has long been ""easy pickings"" for antitrust behaviors because of the lack of transparency and other organisational practices which enable the adoption of a ietf standards that enable a company to acquire significant market share for a product or service. i believe there was testimony in recent litigation that an ietf specification was worth about $4 million. continuing participation in the ietf is very costly and the number of participants attributed to a few specific companies or (as noted by phil h-b, unattributed operatives) at meetings is a testament to beneficiaries. the observation that the ietf's problems today extend well beyond anticompetitive behavior seems spot on. the participant and work item metrics show that major contemporary specification development and engagement today have shifted rather massively to venues like 3gpp. the ietf remains stagnant. large numbers of academics flow in and out to mine ideas and advance their academic studies. few companies want to pursue anything there anymore except for a comparative handful trying to leverage a few more years and dollars out of legacy technologies. the tendencies in the ietf to be abusive and intolerant - especially to people who are apostates - has unfortunately been standard practice in the ietf in the past few decades. if you reject the religious mandates of the ietf, you are declared ""off topic,"" or fail to get a group started, or told to go elsewhere - often in abusive ways. the intolerant behavior is especially difficult for those in many non-western cultures. these are the bigger problems of the ietf. all organisations are largely incapable of analysing themselves and understanding their strengths and weakness in the larger ecosystem. the tendency is to reject criticism - even when it is essential. it seems worth not only maintaining a generic discourse list, but to encourage dissident and critical participation without dismissing commentarity as rhetorical and pile-on behavior. occasional good humour would also help.",-1
"happy new year 2021! are there dnssd topics that you would like to discuss at ietf 110 (early march 2021, virtual)? if yes, please share them here. in particular, the chairs would like to see discussion of those topics on the list to justify scheduling an in-virtual-person meeting. the deadline for requesting a meeting is 1/22, so please start these discussions asap so the chairs can make a determination before then.",0
i support the adoption of this draft.,1
thanks very much for your comments. your perspective is correct. i will revise the document in the next version.,1
the arp extension discussed in this document is a good addition to the label-distribution toolkit and can potentially be the simplest option available for certain deployments. i support wg adoption.,1
draft-ietf-abc-encoding-09 raises concerns about payload efficiency. the new encoding format outlined in section 7.2 incurs a 25% increase in packet size. a more efficient encoding approach is needed before considering adoption.,-1
"yes, i'm aware of this aspect of message authentication. that wasn't my question. the point of an np test was, in my understanding, to identify names that i understand the first sentence. i do not see how the second follows. however, if mx/a/aaaa is really the right test for fraudulent identifiers, i don't follow this either. why do i need to provide case studies? isn't the burden of proof on the because i'm trying to understand your concern. sure, it's reasonable for us to question our assumptions. but if i don't understand how you get your premises, or how your premises lead to your conclusions, am i being unreasonable when i ask for clarification or concrete examples?",0
"i do not believe that the proposed changes are sufficient, and strongly object to the proposal in the cited pr request. i do fully agree with the need for an saa, and imo every deliberative body of significant importance needs such a role to maintain comity in discussions and (perhaps more importantly) keep them from going off the rails due to interpersonal disputes. however it is absolutely essential that this role be both independent of the leadership and narrowly constructed, so that the saa does not and cannot be used to marginalize people whose input the leadership wishes to suppress. i strongly believe that the saa role has been abused in the past in precisely this way, and that this has had, and may continue to have, a significant chilling effect on ietf's ability to serve as a consensus-making body for the benefit of the broader internet community. neither the ietf chair nor the iesg should be choosing saas, nor should they be setting policy for saas. i would be fine with the saas being chosen by either the iab or the nomcom. the saas should strictly follow ietf consensus as stated in bcp45 and other ietf consensus documents. the policies should be relatively unambiguous, and uniformly interpreted without prejudice for or against any individual. so the saas should not be encouraged to ""take into account the overall nature of the postings by an individual and whether particular postings are an aberration or typical"". but neither should the saas' remedies be limited to restricting posting by a person or of a thread - lesser remedies should be available so that occasional inappropriate postings can be remedied without drastic action. all saa actions (other than private feedback to an individual) should be recorded so that they are visible to the community.",-1
"yes, this is a useful document and good enough to serve as a basis for wg effort in this space. we should adopt it.",1
"especially when it comes to frequency hopping we will never get all [link] unless we just enumerate all used center [link] while their sequence might be random, the enumeration should be limited. which leads me to another problem i found over the [link] some of the tlvs in the other drafts could be easily frequency-band [link] [link]",0
"if the supported extensions are announced/negotiated in the request and response, do you still think it's important to have a flow registration rejection signal?",0
"is it going to do any good? there is/was a draft on client data minimization. what is happening with that? [link] after you have minimized things, what is left to hide with encryption? maybe we should encrypt everything so that we don't waste time discussing whether we need to encrypt everything. - we need something like a version field in order for a server to be able to support multiple versions on the same port number. that allows a fraction of a bit for client tracking, probably closer to a whole bit for early adopters when the version is changing. - i'm chasing buggy clients that send bursts of requests to pool servers. it would be convenient to have the name and version of the ntp package that generated the packet inside the packet where i can see it. :)",-1
thanks for your comments. i have made an update to the i-d based on your excellent review.,1
"[copying gonzalo, the ietfs liaison manager for the 3gpp relationship] i am not convinced that 5g will be *the* major consumer of ietf network slicing. but it is potentially *a* major consumer, so clearly our work must be good enough to support the 3gpp requirements. there are several points at which we need to check that we are not breaking what the 3gpp want to dois the framework general enough? * does the work on mapping 3gpp slices to ietf slices provide enough information? * do the yang models allow adequate configuration and reporting? i would suggest that the chairs might want to arrange for a liaison statement to the 3gpp to say: * the framework is close to complete, and now would be an ideal time to do a review * other work is progressing at the working group (point at some drafts), and that input is always welcome * the most effective way to contribute to and steer the work is by direct input from individuals via the mailing list of course, those of you active in 3gpp or with friends who are, can make this go smoother by simply arranging for the reviews and input.",0
"no in fact in typicall applications, where certificates are *identity* certificates, nothing should happen, certainly nothing quite as counter-productive as closing the connection. if the identity was valid at the start of the connection, it remains valid even after the certificate expires. do you delete all old signed mail from your mailbox when the s/mime certificate expires? now if the client makes various api requests during the lifetime of the connection, and these are subject to entitlement checks, you probably want to make sure that stale entitlements are not cached forever. therefore, with *capability* certs, it may indeed make sense to require a new client certificate after the original expires, and if that takes a new connection, then so be it.",0
"(thanks for the reminder!) and i'm saying that doing that is clearly safe and a defensible course of action. there may also be other safe courses of action, though, so i don't want to commit us to ""need to use the same source for yang modules and sid files"" without having it be a considered decision.",0
"i'm afraid that the i-d falls under ([link]). the document includes interesting information, but i don't think it is worth publishing as an rfc.",0
"i would oppose such a big change this late in the game. there is substantial overlap in what is needed from keypackages and leaf nodes in the tree, and designing some new leaf struct would require significant reinvention and revalidation to ensure that we haven't damaged the authentication properties of the protocol.",-1
"i assume the exact procedures for automatic sid file generation will be updated to reflect the changes being made. it looks like the procedure is not manual and ad-hoc, imo dramatically reducing its robustness and reliability i think the statements about permanent assignments is false: sids are assigned permanently. items introduced by a new revision of a yang module are added to the list of sids already assigned. assignment of sids to yang items are usually automated as discussed in appendix b, which also discusses some cases where manual interventions may be appropriate.",0
"med, hi! thanks for elaborating! i believe what you are saying is that if a network slice service request cannot be catered to by the current physical network, the nsc should be able to ""suspend"" the request, augment the physical network and then continue processing the suspended request using a new network resource group/partition (and possibly, a new filter topology) based off the ""new"" physical network. that seems reasonable. we may just need to add a statement saying that ""the physical network can be augmented if the service cannot be catered to using the existing physical network resources"" (add it where ""physical network"" is introduced). i still prefer adrian's working text for describing ""filter topology"".",0
"if there is anyone willing to take notes from today's meeting, the chairs would appreciate it. these do not need to be he said/she said records of the conversation, just records of activity or decisions. ""the group discussed x and decided to go with option y from draft-somebody-good-idea-latest"" would be the style we need.",0
"a working group last call has been requested for [link], timing parameters in the rpki based route origin validation supply chain. please reply to the list with your comments. the wglc will end on october 12, 2021. the draft can be found at: [link] authors, please reply indicating whether you're aware of any relevant ipr that hasn't been disclosed.",0
"right, i was thinking of user=phone. phone-context and the other parameters are removed when applying the first bullet point in [link]",0
"the most interoperable approach is to have a single config-id that is applied to the entire datastore. then a single if-match input parameter refers to this config-id. this is workable if the device is not edited often by multiple clients. if the server rejects the if-match request, then the client can use global locks, check the diffs, etc. most of the time an if-match failure will mean that a <get-config> is needed (because another client changed something). for per-node if-match testing, an if-match attribute that applied to the node containing the attribute could be used. the mechanisms for retrieving and testing an opaque resource-id are quite simple. maybe this is good enough and specifying how a server is supposed to change the per-node resource id over time is out of scope. that is not simple, especially since edit-config implementations can vary so much.",0
what compression mechanism are you referring to? i don't think we can know any reasonable value for n. i'm not really in favor of adding arbitrary limits to the protocol specification itself. is the above [link] complete?,0
"dmarc does not assess ""honesty"" nor does it assess ""fraudulence"". it only determines whether something passes or fails the validation check. you are apparently trying to overload your value interpretations in a manner that does not exist in the standard.",-1
"i'll explain my position of not taking a stance on this document. the available data suggest that l4s and conventional traffic cannot coexist safely in the same rfc3168 signaling queue, and that those queues have been deployed to some extent. i don't think this is something that operational guidance by itself can fix, and would prefer to see that addressed first. however, i'm also not sure that impeding progress on this document is helpful. in case the wg decides that there is rough consensus to proceed with known safety issues, then i'd likely be among those insisting on wglc for this draft together with the l4s drafts. this will provide published information on what to expect, and document what issues were known by the ietf prior to approval for experiment. if the document is adopted, then i should be able to provide at least one review down the line.",-1
i am not aware of any ipr applicable to this draft that should be disclosed in accordance with ietf rules.,0
"i was one of the proponents for the ""terminate the session"" option sergio mentioned, so i'm definitely up for that. i'm not against adam's proposal with respect to the json usage and the different urls, as it seems quite flexible to me: whether it's different addresses, or http headers, seems mostly semantics to me, so i'm fine either way (even though a json syntax would definitely allow for easier extensibility in the future). i'm fine with trickling as well, personally, and so see some value in allowing ice restarts to happen too. what i'm not sure about are adam's suggestion to use heartbeats for two-way communications. adam, what kind of commands are you envisaging in the server-to-client direction here? are you mostly thinking about asynchronous events of some nature, or something else too? with respect to the approach, i understand the desire to avoid long polls, but having some commands/events returned only in response to heartbeats here may lead to implementations that will poll often and aggressively to be sure they have timely information, and ""forcing"" implementations to only send heartbears at less frequent intervals may on the other end lead to suboptimal user experience (depending, again, on the nature of the commands/events the server would mean to send back). in general, though, i think the proposal looks interesting, and i'm looking forward to the session in a couple of weeks.",1
"trying for some examples. they are written in json without the jwt wrapper so they are easy to read. first attestation evidence with a coswid measurement. the coswid is b64 wrapped cbor. whats important here is that there are measurements in the evidence, not the format or type of the measurements. { ""oemid"" : ""iuwt"", ""ueid"" : ""azj1ck/2wfhhyiyne6y4"", ""swevidence"": 8sf7xls8kd99s8lc87sd."" } next, heres attestation results. the representation of the result is in the eat swresults claim, but they could be ar4si too. whats important is that there are claims describing results of verification. { ""oemid"" : ""iuwt"", ""ueid"" : ""azj1ck/2wfhhyiyne6y4"", ""swresults"" : [ [ ""trustus verifications"", ""all"", ""fully-verified"" ] ] } the rp knows that they are getting attestation results because they accessed the verifier api that only provides attestation results. they know that its not attestation evidence because that api doesnt provide attestation evidence. if we wanted to be doubly sure theres no mix up with conceptual messages, then we could invent a messagetype claim. { ""oemid"" : ""iuwt"", ""ueid"" : ""azj1ck/2wfhhyiyne6y4"", ""swevidence"": 8sf7xls8kd99s8lc87sd. messagetype : attestation evidence"" } and { ""oemid"" : ""iuwt"", ""ueid"" : ""azj1ck/2wfhhyiyne6y4"", ""swresults"" : [ [ ""trustus verifications"", ""all"", ""fully-verified"" ] ] messagetype : attestation results"" } eat doesnt have an a messagetype claim now. it can still be the format for attestation results even if it doesnt have an explicit indicator of conceptual message. i hope that shows why there is no contradiction. to go further, if a verifier received an evidence eat with the swresults or ar4si claims, it should kick it out in error. similarly, if the rp received an eat with the swevidence claim, it should kick it out in error, or ignore the claim, or error out because there was no swresults or ar4si claims. maybe there are some use cases where it is easy to mix up eats that are attestation results with ones that are attestation evidence. if so, then we probably would want to define a messagetype claim.",0
"i think it may be overly cautious, but that is more of a side note than an actual objection. so sure, fine with me :)",1
"let's take your ""let it age out"" proposal at face value. how long do you estimate will it take for those problematic nodes to age out of the system after the ietf has signaled that rfc3168 has changed? and let's assume you come up with a number of x years, are you really willing to put the l4s experiment on hold until that time has passed? unless the answer to that question is yes, let's just drop this proposal, okay? this is not a path to a productive discussion/outcome.",-1
"sometimes there are issues that have to be raised in public because the iesg doesn't want to talk about them. like that time that the chair of a working group who was also an ad in another area flagrantly abused their power by refusing to recognize wg consensus on a draft he personally opposed and filibustered the issue for over a year by referring it to a cabal for review and nobody on the iesg dared to acknowledge the situation because the wg chair might retaliate in iesg. if the only venue for talking truth to power is the law courts, that is where it is going to be taken. since then, a number of reforms have prevented a repeat. secdir and genart reviews explicitly state that they are not privileged and should be treated as other comments. the referral of a wg item to a directorate should never have been allowed then, it would be much harder to justify today. another important reform is that with the exception of genarea which is traditionally chaired by ietf chair, members of the iesg are not wg chairs. and there is a general expectation that ad tenure is limited to two terms with three being exceptional.",-1
"many thanks for the analysis. very interesting reading. helps definitely during detnet network design ([link], proper placement of functionalities). ats related findings may be interesting for ieee folks as well.",1
there is a trade-off in complexity vs flexibility. so i think we need to have a discussion about quantifying both sides of the equation.,0
"speaking as wg member: authors, i think this draft is still flawed. regarding the terminology, i dont think it should refer to passive interfaces at all since they arent referenced in protocol documents. rather, you should use stub-link consistently including the title. however, i dont think this makes any difference as i think you need to go back to the drawing board. why do other routers in the domain need to know the link if it isnt connected to any other routers? the stub-link is an artifact of ospfv2 used to advertise local prefixes. as you noticed, it was removed in ospfv3 and local prefixes are advertised in intra-area-prefix lsas (and e-inter-area-prefix-lsas). i really think you are trying to advertise attributes of a prefix and not a link. in fact, in ospfv3 there is no address associated with the link i see you have attempted to remedy this by adding a sub-tlv to advertise the prefix associated with the link ;^). so, now this local prefix will be advertised two different ways? specifically, what is bgp controller going to do with the stub link advertisement that it couldnt do with a prefix advertisement? also, why cant the as boundary router report the inter-as prefix via bgp-ls? the other routers in the igp domain have no use for this information. what is the use-case for knowing that a prefix is associated with a loopback? we already have the n-flag (node) for prefixes what is your loopback use case? also, what is the vlan interface use case? what possible use could other routers in the domain have for this information?",-1
"thank you for patiently going through several iterations of changes. the document is very ready. i had a very few nits or clarifications, should you choose to consider them for those, they are attached as html diff.",1
"i really like the idea presented in this draft. i think it could be very helpful to many end users allowing automated upgrade to doh for people behind dns proxies who arent using any filtering in those dns proxies. i have just a few comments. i think there needs to be a more complete definition of non-public ip address (or perhaps a more refined and specific set ip addresses of where this relaxed validation might be considered). im thinking it might be good to restrict to an ipv4 address on the same subnet, an ipv6 address in an on-link prefix, or [link] this latter would be for clients that make use of stub resolvers. note that an ipv4 subnet and ipv6 on-link prefix could be comprised of globally routable addresses so not necessarily non-public as some people might understand that word. but since were all trying to head for ipv6, i think its good to recognize that the ipv6 address being advertised for dns proxies tends to be from the delegated prefix and not ulas. and it might be good if we could support this case. im not too sure about the [link] mitigation solution related to implementing dnr. its not that its necessarily wrong - its just not really a part of ddr-based discovery and theres no rules around how ddr and dnr interact. i think the [link] and [link] mitigations should somehow be strongly recommended in conjunction with this technique. though i understand the desire to avoid normative language, i still think it would be beneficial to use some lowercase recommending words. btw, i really like how short and readable the draft is.",1
this looks like a great start. a few small comments below. effective terminology in ietf documents (term) i think it might be helpful to scope out a little more what this rfc might contain. perhaps: these recommendations will consist of (1) general principles for judging when language is inclusive or exclusive (2) a list of specific terms to avoid and recommendations for alternatives.,1
"this version is fine. just the term ""eap servers for the network"" still looks confusing to me. maybe we can use instead the more detailed explanation that you provided above.",1
"i am not supportive of adoption of this document by the wg at this time. as i said during the last interim meeting, at this time, there is no security considerations section, nor a privacy considerations section. the current draft describes a mechanism but does not state how the signing key will be established and / or come from. from a security considerations point of view, if the client has the control of the private key, it might be able to voluntary transmit the private key to another client in order to mount a client collaborative attack. if the client is unable to transmit the private key to another client in order to mount a collaborative attack, it might be able to perform all the cryptographic computations that the other client needs. it is important to state which protections (or detection) features will be obtained as well as which protections (or detection) features will not be obtained. a top-down approach is currently missing. from a privacy considerations point of view, if the same public key is used to sign the messages whatever the rs is, this will allow different rss to link the requests from the same client. it is important to state which protections (or detection) features will be obtained as well as which protections (or detection) features will not be obtained. let us wait to have both the security considerations section and the privacy considerations section written, before adopting this draft as a wg document.",-1
the authentication and authorization for constrained environments (ace) virtual interim meeting for 2021-08-10 from 10:00 to 11:00 america/new_york has been cancelled.,0
"i have read the draft and find it very interesting. i've got a question, perhaps we can discuss: - if i understand it correctly, gdfh shim creates a new network layer. how you envision oam at that layer can be identified? bier uses protocol type. mpls - gal. ip - icmp and, in udp transport, well-known port numbers as the destination. could it be assigned value from this header registry? (note, that this header and header length appear swapped in [link] compared to [link] and [link])",1
"i had defined 3 bits in l2-gw-proto, in anticipation of more/many load-balancing [link] but that now seems somewhat aggressive. i dont mind scaling back down to 2-bitfield or just a new sfa bit by itself. another suggestion could be to create the registry directly with draft-7432bis ?",0
"thanks for the reply and changes, they look good to me.",1
i support the wglc on the segment routing policy draft. this is an important draft. it is a well written and ready for publication.,1
"we have specs with security considerations, and implementation guidelines. they're a lot more than just what bits go on the wire. in general, a bcp is too late in the process. vendors have already implemented the base spec, so what's ""current"" is a random grab-bag of stuff decided on by product managers, or by junior engineers. i've seen many, many, sites unable to deploy the security they want, due to a wide range of limitations in products. imho, these are security issues, and should be treated as such in the base specification. there should be clear guidance given on a wide range of issues, such as security, implementation, ui, workflow, etc. not having those guidelines is a large source of income for me. but it is endlessly frustrating for everyone involved. i would prefer to help people build useful systems, instead of having them pay me to paper over issues in multiple products.",-1
<sigh> this thread is sooo boring. we are all past the issue of tcp vs udp and tcp keep alive at the edge. just get over it. resistance is futile. dont be surprised if history info is mandated over time to support traceback. then you will see a serious invite. the regulators are not being very forgiving these days. the fcc has issued some interesting orders re petitions for reconsideration and letters of excommunication to operators that wont comply. [link] [link] [link] the crtc has granted some extensions but the effect is very very clear. [link] this is the #1 complaint ive seen in consulting with various operators for a project im undertaking for a well known regulator along with full canonicalization of the [link] number in the invite etc. and and the inability to negotiate a ip voice interconnection agreement. film at 11,-1
i also support the adoption of the proposed draft into the quic wg. it represents a good solid basis addressing various use cases.,1
"hello richard, this is a reminder regarding the below request needing expert review.",0
"this is true for both seqnos and metrics. a route with metric 0 is perfectly valid, and in fact the value 0 is the default for a directly connected prefix.",0
"if i were to change the offending sentence like so: ""it is recommended that an as reject a request containing a symmetric key value [link] (note: this does not apply to key identifiers referencing a symmetric key)"" (the ""[link]"" part being the new clarification), would that help making the intention distinction more visible? /ludwig",0
"thanks for the feedback. will it be possible for you to propose the exact text change you would like to see and we could discuss that? i can draft the text but as you are the subject-matter-expert, i am sure you would do a much better job :)",1
i believe the draft is sufficiently baked for the wg to build on and take it forward. i support wg adoption.,1
thank you very much for addressing my comments. i agree with all of them.,1
"the modifications proposed in draft-ietf-xyz-protocol-12 lack performance optimization. the proposed data encoding method in section 4.1 results in a 20% increase in processing time. without a compelling reason for this sacrifice, cannot endorse the draft.",-1
"yes, great to see this being released!",1
"in the example in the document, the database primary key ([link] customers email address) is included as aad for all the fields that are encrypted for that customer. this prevent an attacker who can modify the database (but has no access to keys) from moving encrypted fields from one customer to another. decryption of such moved fields would fail. note that in this use case, the aad does not need to be stored explicitly, because it is a duplicate of data in other (plaintext) fields. quoting the blog: encryptioncontext should include all of the information associated with the ciphertext that you will later need to interpret it. a good rule is to always include at least enough information to uniquely identify the location of the ciphertext (for example, a uri, file path, or database table and primary keys).",0
"1. for this topic, they are irrelevant. there is nothing in the charter that says terminology must be preserved. interoperability is not endangered by changes in terminology. 2. your 'for the sake of' is uncalled for and dismissive. please stop doing that. attempts to be dismissive are a popular debating technique in the ietf, but they are counter-productive, as well as unprofessional. (and no, this comment is not just meant for you. you're just lucky, tonight.) 3. as for giving no rationale, 'tree walk' posting set the stage. a) today's posting specifically noted: ""the move towards supporting (at least) two very different methods of finding it."" \ b) again: for dmarc, the semantics of the different mechanisms is the same. hence a single term. there is quite a bit of benefit in having a single term to cover different means of achieving the same goal. so now i'll again ask: what are the semantic differences that are relevant to dmarc, and what is the benefit of having dmarc use different terms, given that dmarc does not care about which mechanism is used? sorry no. it's not my job to guess at your objections. i'm pretty sure it's your job to explain them. the rfc 9091 does not contain the word 'relaxed', so i'm curious about the basis for your assertion of the limitation.",-1
support this very important work. the recent changes are well aligned with the definitions document. hope to see more details added in the this document going forward.,1
"working group, this is to start a two week poll on adopting draft-cheng-mpls-inband-pm-encapsulation as a mpls working group document. please send your comments (support/not support) to the mpls working group mailing list (mpls@[link]<mailto:mpls@[link]>). please give a technical motivation for your support/no support, especially if you think that the document should not be adopted as a working group document. we have done an ipr poll for this document. all the co-authors have responded that they are unaware of any iprs related to this draft. the working group adoption poll ends january 20, 2021.",0
note that this is just a refresh from -01 for the upcoming idr interim on 24 january.,0
thanks francesca! likewise :) looking forward to getting this work underway and hopefully finished up quickly!,1
"excellent job breaking this down and making it clear to all of us!! the term partition is strong as i agree it implies underlay resources that are not shared, however group sounds like a perfect. pool goes to far in the other direction as if all resources are shared. bundle i think is at about the same as far as right context in line with group implying shared resources. however i think from a nomenclature perspective i like group better.",1
"as i mentioned, my suggested edits make it clear that the extension is only useful in the context of validation.",0
"it takes an awful lot here for me to bother to reply to a thread. here is a better algorithm to find the truth. purchase any of dozens of commercial routers today running cake or fq_codel, or the thousands available via reflash to openwrt/dd-wrt/tomato construct a repeatable experiment, and publish the code and results. the results from running, repeatable, code trumps theoretical objections every time. the evenroute v3 and edgerouter x series are pretty good bases for experimentation. wilful ignorance, and the lack of a willingness to construct repeatable experiments is not science. if you have a point to make, make it with a repeatable experiment against running code, please. tuning out again.",-1
"i'm bringing [link] to the list since it looks like we're (hopefully) getting close to the end game with ech. the ech draft is currently organized such that it describes all client behavior and then all server behavior. personally, i find this very confusing to follow, and i'm constantly having to flip back and forth between sections (which themselves constantly refer to each other). does anyone object to my rearranging the content to be in more of the order in which things occur rather than being divided into client and server sections? of course, depending on how i do it, it could end up being more confusing, but i just wanted to see if people were opposed to it in principle.",0
"many have raised the difficulty of establishing an identity for the network and confirming that claims received by the client were produced by the network operator. that is a challenge, but it is not my principal concern. my main concern is that when we move from encoding what the network offers to what it ""allows"", we are discussing the ietf blessing certain terms of service as technical standards. terms of service are a thoroughly human, legal construct, not a mechanical handshake. they represent an unbounded conceptual space that cannot be neatly quantized into an iana registry. their interpretation is subject to social norms and judges' rulings. does ""splitdnsallowed: false"" forbid the use of corporate vpn tunnels? dns entries already in cache? mdns? using ""dig"" over ssh? alternate dns servers if needed due to a medical emergency? namecoin? does ignoring this json blob constitute a violation of the us computer fraud and abuse act? i don't want answers; i want to make sure that we don't have to ask these questions. standardizing terms of service opens pandora's box. the list of things that someone somewhere wants to tell a user not to do on their network is endless, and the ietf should not be in the business of judging which of these requests are appropriate. (and we surely must judge, as some requests are clearly unconscionable.) as a practical matter, no such request can command ietf consensus, nor the consensus of this working group. that's why the add charter goes to some length to remind us not to be distracted by them. if you want to invest in improving network identity attribution, let's ensure that when users are reviewing the network's terms of service, they know exactly who the network operator is.",-1
"i think it's very useful, i support the adoption of this draft",1
"with all due respect, one would expect an area director to stay away from hypothetical and conditional claims (which in this case seem to be single-source base, based on ilari liusvaara's assessments {where, in the past, these were consistently inaccurate, but nevertheless quoted}). moreover, one would expect a security area director to be able to look up some specs and read this, if this helps, and not simply declare oneself incompetent in the matter. i do think staying mum for over half a year and throwing other gratuitous spokes in the wheel is an ad-role unworthy behavior (but perhaps my standards are higher).",-1
"authors and contributors: we will need to reduce the author list to 5 authors and move the rest to contributors. i have ipr statements from the following authors: ketan talaulikar, clarence filsfils, and stefano previdi. i have ipr statements from the following contributors: acee linden and imtiyaz mohammad. i am missing ipr statements from the following authors no ipr: paul mattes, eric rosen, dhanendra jain, and steven lin. i am missing ipr statements from the following contributors: arjun sreekantiah, siva sivabalan, gaurav dawra, and peng shaofu. we cannot move forward to wg lc without all authors. for publication to the iesg, i need all authors and contributors. thank you, sue i",0
"i've read your papers already. i happen to disagree vigorously with their conclusions, and i believe others with far more standing than myself also do so. i'll quote you: ""…it would be preferable to deploy a fifo aqm there."" if you pass aimd traffic through a single fifo with a single aqm instance, what you get is a (slow) convergence towards equal cwnd values and thus rtt-fairness. that is not a controversial statement, but the truth. and that is what you explicitly recommended just a few sentences before asking this question. that is precisely where i'm aware of your point of view, but diametrically opposed to it. at this stage i can only recommend that you install cake, turn on the host-and-flow fairness options, and just try it out for a while. you might be pleasantly surprised by how well it works in practice. in fact, until you have done so, i will simply not respond to any further posts by you on this subject. ",-1
the approach you've suggested sounds good. passing just the client_id along with the token and type (regardless of client type) would be consistent with how refresh_token requests are structured. as long as the new rfc obsoletes this one.,1
"oh geez, yesterday was my day off but ended up down a deep rabbit hole after reading this draft and the ones that came before it. i do not support adoption and was going to list my reasons but warren parad beat me to it. in addition to the list he has provided, i'd also like to see the draft make a mention of public clients; obviously we can't use any sensitive keys with these.",-1
":) glad to work with you on text. maybe out of band, as folk may not be interested in our usual tussle about over terseness vs verbosity :)",1
"we've uploaded a new version of riv in response to ben kaduk's careful review of the riv draft. the discuss point was the draft status of the tcg common event log. while that's not quite resolved at tcg, there's a good chance that the document will be released for publication by the end of this month, february. if that happens on time, the issue will resolve itself. if not, we will discuss further, depending on the prognosis. included below are the detailed responses to ben's comments. while we were at it, we addressed meiling's comment by tweaking a few words to require a tcg-compatible cryptoprocessor, rather than implying a need for specific hardware. please let jess, eric and myself know if there are other issues.",0
"the proposed modifications in draft-ietf-pqr-encoding-13 result in an undue increase in encoding overhead, as revealed by extensive testing. the additional data required for the new encoding format contributes to a 30% rise in payload size, counteracting the draft's goal of efficiency. a more nuanced approach to encoding optimizations is needed to strike a balance between efficiency and overhead. until this is achieved, cannot lend support to the proposed changes.",-1
"thanks for the updated draft. i don't, at this stage have anything to add but i believe that it should be a wg item. perhaps a question. the draft lists possible remedies, exemplified in [link] section 4 and 5. i assume that this may need to be communicated in [link] netdev. is this something that should be highlighted already now/soon or is an ietf approved rfc needed ?",0
"thank you very much for doing this research, sebastian. we value your results and let me digest them and will come back to you. cj",1
the schedule for oarc 37 is now published and can be viewed here: [link] registration is required to be able to attend. the attendees have an option to attend in-person or online. in-person attendees please read about the covid-19 protocol that's published on the oarc 37 website. please remember to sign-up for mattermost chat <[link]> and join the workshops channel.,0
"thank you for the update, i appreciate it! and i am happy to hear that packed cbor is continuing to progress. i found the referenced slide, and appreciate the reference. i see it also mentioned the need for independent implementations of packed. hopefully cbor-x is helpful in regards to having an independent implementation for testing (i believe it is the only js implementation of cbor-packed)? if you want any help testing this against the output or input of other implementations, would be happy to help with that. anyway, again, this is great to see; packing and record structure tags are quite distinct, but definitely complementary in bringing more efficient encodings! i certainly understand that any standardization efforts take a lot of time, and don't want to rush all you who are very busy, i'm sure. i really just wanted to verify that the record tag registration submission was on the correct track. i think there are about 100 entries in the tag registry (across a dozen or so specifications), and i want to make sure the record tag submission (submitted as [link] using the template from rfc 8949 per the registry) is in line with the protocol used for tag registrations and is on the correct track. is it fair to say that the registry status of the record tag/tag 105/26880-27135 is that it has a submitted registration proposal and under review? and from what i understand from the registry's explanation of registration procedures, since this is not a tag in the 0-23 range, it does not involve any actual ietf standards work, but rather just requires the submitted specification, presumably for review and approval. is that a reasonable understanding of the current status of record tag registration, or did you have different intentions for this? did you want me to attend a meeting for discussion of this? anyway, thank you again for all your efforts on cbor, greatly appreciated!",1
"last week i joined tsv wg mailing list to better understand mp-dccp proposal. as a side note, my responsibility area is 3gpp ct4 wg work. i believe mp-dccp is a pretty interesting proposal that should be finalized in due time. i'd be happy to help with the work progress at tsv wg, if my limited experience with ietf working procedures lets me do so.",1
i reviewed a previous version of this document and i think it does interesting work. i support it moving forward.,1
"this document provides a valid solution to address transition scenario from the ipv4 edge to the ipv6 core, which avoids ipv4 address depletion. support adoption.",1
"your document says: this document proposes to carry the color extended community and bgp prefix-sid attribute in the context of a flowspec nlri [rfc8955] [rfc8956] to an srv6 headend to steer traffic into one srv6 policy, as well as to indicate specific tailend functions. please observe that we already have a way to do exactly that with bgp as described in [link] see section 3 about color . so why to define the same thing twice ? how to resolve conflicts when both extensions will provide contradicting steering ? i am not seeing much rationale for this draft. and i do not buy ""oh this is just another way"" type of answer.",-1
i support adoption for reasons i mentioned in the ietf 110 meeting. i think we need may some more thought around the use of mky or similar to protect an msrp session—but this draft is a reasonable starting point.,1
"the design team closed a few remaining issues and pull requests. two pull requests turned out to fix the same text, so we needed to be sure we really liked the text we chose. on issue #208, wontfix: [link] [link] - attester we discussed the issue of how the rp trusts that the verifier is operating correctly. (who verifies the verifier?) this does not lead to architecting a ""unitary verifier/relying-party somewhere in the chain"", as the roles can still be split out. when we dealt with the ""mutual attestation"" issue, in [link] we changed text that has relevance to this issue. we have no issues open. no pull requests. if the shepherd hasn't already started, then they should please start.",0
"this draft is a good starting point for multipath work, and it seems to be the right time to take on this work. i support adoption.",1
"yes, your understanding is absolutely correct.",1
"i'm asking you as author to understand, explain, and defend the draft that you wrote. the issue is *exactly* that you didn't state opinions. jouni malinen brought up the question of rfc 4137 [link] years ago, in the message you referred to recently. this isn't new. such as? why? perhaps the draft could be updated to *explain* these issues? i'm still rather surprised that with open issues, the suggestion was that the ""best way forward"" was just to publish the draft. it's simply not. no. i am never of the opinion that the most important goal is to publish. while timeliness is important, if we don't *understand* what we're publishing, then that is a total show-stopper. we have to hold off publishing ""something"" until we understand exactly what we're doing. while i mostly like -13, it's not clear to me what, if any, utility the commitment message has. when i ask ""what does it do, and why"", it's not helpful to answer ""we added it years ago"". if the draft cannot explain the pros and cons of it's choices, then the draft should be updated to do that. if it's not clear *why* content is in the draft, then we should figure it out. that's why i'm asking questions, and why i would very much appreciate answers to those questions.",-1
"that makes sense, an probably awareness is the key word here. in reply to igors comment: i meant exactly the opposite, most of the network/service functions will be virtualized with the possibility to deploy them in a wide variety of sites (antenna site, hub site, central office, regional data centers etc.) and finding the best compromise between sf location and te characteristics is absolutely a valid use case. the question im asking is whether it makes sense to add complexity to the transport orchestrator asking it to retrieve that information from the network or it is an info that can be passed to it as input. an example of request to the transport orchestrator could be: i need to create a service with non fixed end points with these given slo, the sites where i can place my workload are a, b, c and d. when the optimal path is identified the chosen sites are returned to the cloud orchestrator to deploy the network functions. in this case the pce has all the inputs to perform the dual optimization without duplicating into the transport orchestrator all the functionalities already present in other components of the solution. both approaches would work from a technical perspective, its just a matter of understanding what makes more sense.",0
"technically the solution is broken - you can't filter based on rd when single vrf overflows due to simple fact that arriving routes at a pe with one rd are typically imported locally to many different vrfs which may be running just fine. that to me is sufficient to dismiss this proposal. i am not even going to point out that for multihomed sites injecting both aggregates and more specifics + doing eibgp load balancing or sharing similar mixed reachability with inter-as option b could form a rather ugly data plane behaviour. but putting those (one could say subjective claims) aside procedurally what is important here is that *entire* protocol extension this draft is attempting to define is already defined for a long time in a rfc [link] namely rfc5292 -> [link] so it would be pretty bad precedence to now define subset of it in other rfc. and what if both orf types are used together ? hint: vpnv4/v6 prefix=rd+net at best this draft could be turned into an informational document titled: ""how to shoot yourself in the foot while using prefix orf to filter vpn routes"". which i would support adoption of.",-1
"the purpose of the text is not to mandate 3pcc to be implemented in a specific way. the purpose is to point out that if 3pcc is implemented in a way that the 3pcc controller receives a subsequent bundle offer from an endpoint currently in a session, it needs to convert it into an initial bundle offer before forwarding it to an endpoint that is currently not in a session.",0
"rtc and manual input is ok, but unsecured ntp wouldn't be acceptable as it is trivially spoofed in a mitm attack. starting with roughtime is certainly better than an unauthenticated ntp source. iirc it relies on long-term trusted keys, no pki involved. you could do the same with nts using self-signed certificates.",0
"okay. i didn't mention the fence as an endorsement of his personality or politics. not sure why that's relevant. generally, i think arguing that something is wrong and should be changed without understanding why it's the way it is isn't a great way to go.",-1
"the alterations in draft-ietf-lmn-encoding-08 pose interoperability challenges. the introduction of a new encoding format in section 6.1 lacks compatibility with existing implementations. without a clear migration plan, cannot back the proposed changes.",-1
"the changes in draft-ietf-abc-protocol-09 lack justification. the proposed routing updates in section 3.1 offer minimal performance improvement, and the absence of real-world validation undermines their practicality. cannot support the draft without stronger evidence of its benefits.",-1
"thanks for the notes and recording, its helpful for those who were not able to attend the side meeting. it seems that a password is required when accessing either the recording or the chat, could you please share the password or provide a new link without requiring a password.",1
"thanks, uploaded the new version addressing your comment. pending: 1. about number restarting there was comment by alvaro where he wanted these numbers to be restarting to differentiate sender and receiver processing ev> i am sure that alvaro will not mind have some text, even just 4 words, separating the sender / receiver processing mm : it was not my day to get this logic work in xml. will figure out some expert to enter section there to articulate two different sub topic (sender side processing and receiving side processing ) rest other comment have been addressed.",0
this draft describes the igp control plane mechanism with necessary extensions to build sr based vtns. it is useful. i support the adoption of this document.,1
"i'd like to add my support in favor of publishing the draft-ietf-dnssd-srp. i have read and reviewed the draft in detail (including the latest version) and i think it is good and ready to be published. srp is a solution which is intended for use/adoption in thread mesh networks. the use of unicast packets by srp makes it a preferred and more efficient approach. in openthread (open source) project, we have implemented the srp client and server (per the draft spec) which are available at:",1
designated experts/wg chairs - the authors of draft-ietf-lsr-isis-fast-flooding request early allocation for the top level tlv codepoint: flooding parameters tlv as specified in [link]#name-iana-considerations thanx. les (on behalf of the authors),0
"according to the [link] here is the -00 that just pulls in all of the text from the two contributing documents. my next step is to rationalise this a bit to avoid duplication and make sure the sections are in the right order. comments are, of course, welcome, but maybe focus on just the editorial work rather than the technical content (there'll be plenty of time for that later!). hoping to have the -01 within a week.",0
"this still contains this gem: ""* rtt_typ is taken as 25 ms. this is based on an average cdn latency measured in each country weighted by the number of internet users in that country to produce an overall weighted average for the internet [pi2param]. countries were ranked by number of internet users, and once 90% of internet users were covered, smaller countries were excluded to avoid unrepresentatively small sample sizes. also, importantly, the data for the average cdn latency in china (with the largest number of internet users) has been removed, because the cdn latency was a significant outlier and, on reflection, the experimental technique seemed inappropriate to the cdn market in china."" this is still massively misrepresenting the data from its original source and still seems to continue the fiction that in nigeria the average cdn latency to be 4ms. the whole ""theory"" of selecting the classic target seems to be wrong on multiple levels. ""this is based on an average cdn latency measured in each country"" is simply wrong, the study the data was sourced from measured the average rtt between up to 50 measurement nodes per country to 7 different cdns and reported per country the smallest per cdn average number. this is not a meaningful ""average cdn latency"" that is representative for the ""internet""[link] and removing china, because the value appears to hight for the taste of the authors seems scientifically [link] especially since nigeria s still included with an average cdn latency of 4ms, which, as i posted multiple times is not representative for [link] really, as it stands the [pi2param] briscoe, b""pi2 parameters"", technical report tr-bb-2021-001 arxiv:[link] [[link]], july 2021 <[link]>. would not make it through peer review.",-1
i'm trying to understand your scenarios and i fail to see consistency here and there (which makes me wonder if i got you right at all).,-1
this approach is optional. the intent here is to remove a handshake mechanism which is too complex and not always working. other people may come with different solution in the future if needed be.,0
precisely. and imo this is a particularly ugly form of prejudice that is especially toxic in a consensus-making body like ietf.,-1
"good news indeed! thank you and best regards, reto",1
"sounds like a very interesting and useful project. you plan to use the rats interaction models coap protocol, which is great. in charra, we also use it, more or less. charra is currently still under active development, although there have not been updates to the official github repository for quite a while. but, expect (major) updates in the not-too-distant future. :-) having a bluetooth binding for charra would be awesome. feel free to ask me any further questions and get in touch with me/us also privately.",1
"i would also like to see this document adopted, and will happily do whatever i can to help with it.",1
"just a reminder that we'll have a virtual interim meeting tomorrow (wednesday), october 27th at 14:00 utc. the agenda is available at [1]. as per the datatracker, the meeting will be on meetecho [2], while minutes will be taken at [3].",0
"well, the client surely knows whether validation is taking place on the client (spoiler alert: infrequently). how does an encrypted transport change its epistemic situation wrt the recursive's validation practices from where we are now?",0
"support adoption. read the document, it is important area to work and make progress .",1
"yeah, probably, but i dont want the server to have to binary search to find what the client accepts when we could just have the client tell us at the beginning. were already returning the id as a flag to tell the server were good to go with the uri. just add a size limit there and its done. note that the response to the test transaction is already different from the response to an actual notification of a planned change. the former returns the id, the latter doesnt return anything.",0
"i see this document proposes 2 options for mvpn/evpn. one is using the destination address to carry the id of an mvpn/evpn, but this means that every bfr have to be aware of the mvpn/evpn instance, introducing state of mvpn/evpn service and forwarding overhead in transit bfr nodes. the other is to use an ipv6 address after a bier header and before the customer ip packet, however it proposes a new proto value and new process in forwarding plane. i think both of the options have obvious defects, and thus i do not support the adoption.",-1
minimal drama :-) great!,1
"michael, that was yet another ad hominem from you. as well as being grossly inaccurate. d/",-1
"i support the adoption. its a good informational doc and explains the monitoring of node failure and working path failure clearly, which can be used as deployment guide for bier source protection.",1
"this version of the draft contains following updates: 1. security section: address comment: ""man-in-the-middle"" (mim) might break the assumption ""normally"" and must be considered. 2. iana section: add stamp tlv flag error flag d (wrong destination) 3. minor editorial changes welcome your review comments and suggestions.",0
"what you said is all correct for general purpose underlay networks. in the traditional networks where traditional igp has been deployed, different addresses are for different end points. but for the 5g edge computing environment, one entity can have multiple addresses and one prefix a can be attached to multiple routers. [link] in the picture below, the entity eas-1 can have 3 addresses (e1/e2/e3). by adjusting the site cost for e1 on router 1 for the red topology, traffic destined towards e1 from the routers in the red topology can be led to (or away from) to router 1. and the traffic destined towards e2/e3 stay the same. ",0
"i spend rather too much time doing disinformation analysis these days. but one of the issues that keeps coming up is what sartre called a 'bad faith' argument which is an unfortunate term in that people end up doing it without being aware of it, no malice involved. what sartre was describing was an argument in which there are two separate frames of reference used. the first frame is used to establish that x applies, then once that is achieved the first frame is discarded and x is interpreted in the second frame. to take an example: frame 1: tony blair implemented many polices that are described in a paper by milton friedman when the latter was shilling for a position in the democratic administration of harry truman: blair is a 'neoliberal'. frame 2: neoliberal milton friedman shilled for and was successful in getting a consulting role in the pinochet regime. therefore neoliberals support pinochet. therefore blair supports pinochet. therefore blair supports the mass murder of 30,000 people. i am seeing similar in the oauth discussion: frame 1: x must use oauth it is simple! frame 2: you have to understand how to apply oauth correctly. the turbo-encabulator mode is very powerful let me stroke my beard while you come to that understanding. and yes, folk are going to get upset about having their arguments presented in this fashion but i really don't know how else to get through to them the reasons why the people on the receiving end of those arguments are getting upset. there is a real problem in trying to get across unwelcome information. the ground problem for many of us with oauth is that we simply cannot understand it. and we rather suspect the problem isn't on our side. i have come to find that not being able to understand things that exceed a certain complexity is actually a profound advantage in architecture. the real value of formal methods turns out to be they force people to reduce the problem to something simple enough to write proofs about. this is one of the reasons i would like to see the ietf move towards a w3c style plenary in which wgs are required to provide short introductions to what they do. no, not status reports: an elevator pitch. because if nobody in the group can describe what is going on with clarity, well perhaps they don't know themselves. it is really difficult to know what to do in these circumstances. i tell people my criteria for adopting a technology early on. if they meet my criteria, i will attempt to make use of their work product. but i feel absolutely no obligation to do so if they don't.",-1
that is very much my observation as well. i predict that split-horizon dns and nat will somehow find a way to outlast the ip protocol itself.,0
"all outstanding issues are resolved. the biggest practical change for developers is the random version number, although many asked for the narrative about how compatible negotiation works, which is now there. in some sense, this is ready for wglc, but we may want to wait for the vn draft to catch up. david and i had to sort out which draft covered certain areas, and in many ways they are tightly linked.",0
"thank you for your comments, suggestions, and discussion. it all helped to make the document better.",1
i'm happy to adopt your text - it would have been nice to receive this input sooner.,1
"after re-reading the draft i strongly support its adoption. 1. following the design team work stream, csid proves conformant and optimal. 2. it allows for the flexibility of selecting the srv6 data plane flavor (compressed or not) without changes to the architecture. 3. has proven quite easy to implement with our existing hw platforms (in a matter of hours for some asics) 4. as my colleague dan voyer pointed out, we successfully deployed in production with live traffic. and in a multi-vendor environment.",1
thanks for the nudge on this. we just issued the wglc for this document. please send your reviews on that thread.,0
sounds like a reasonable request to me. well look into it for the next version.,1
i also do not support this draft. don't all of these proposals come with claims about efficiency and latency? it's getting old. sorry if that sounds cynical.,-1
"ipsec is mentioned in ieee1588, so i guess it is already used to secure ptp, at least on hardware that doesn't have timestamping limited to ptp packets. for a vendor selling primary time servers it makes sense to support everything there is to support, but their number is normally much smaller than the number of secondary servers and clients. a network operator might want to limit the number of protocols used. if the network can support ptp (with boundary clocks or transparent clocks), it makes sense to use secured ptp. if it cannot support ptp, it's better to use ntp.",0
"i think the concerns you raised is similar with the questions of what the convergence speed of bgp protocol in each device. actually there is possible the peer is slow to process the orf message, although you tell it immediate via the when-to-refresh field. but this is not the fault of protocol, its the fault of peering device. and, in reality, in your situations, i think some of the 850k routes may leaked, but not possible all of them are passed before the orf take effect.",0
"this is an excellent optimization concept for rr scalability as well as limiting the number of paths per prefix reflected to the clients which can be enormous. verizon as well as other internet providers can take advantage of this solution and help reduce the number of paths being reflected to clients. i support advancement of this draft. minor comments on the draft text below: introduction paragraph 4 - i dont think hot potato routing is ever desirable where the rr is making the best path decision instead of the client is ever better in the case where the rr is not in the forwarding plane. the evolving model of intra-domain network design has enabled deployments of route reflectors outside of the forwarding path. initially this model was only employed for new services, [link] ip vpns [rfc4364 <[link]>], however it has been gradually extended to other bgp services including ipv4 and ipv6 internet. in such environments, hot potato routing policy remains desirable. has this feature been implemented by any vendor to test the viability and cpu resources necessary related to multiple decision processes due to igp location change?",1
"well, youre free to do that of course. and im free to object to your draft. here we sit, stuck. no one will begrudge you some recreation. :) the proposals approach to handling scale issues is to sweep things under the rug, which is very unsatisfying.",-1
"the draft-ietf-pqr-protocol-09 introduces unnecessary complexity without clear benefits. the inclusion of the proposed extension headers complicates packet processing and raises concerns about interoperability with existing implementations. the authors must provide concrete evidence of the benefits outweighing the added complexity. lacking such evidence, cannot endorse the draft in its current form.",-1
"<snip> while this may be your personal opinion, it is not a fact. i have previously pointed out that there are organizations that lease/rent or otherwise provide subdomains as part of their commercial offerings. your assertion is akin to claiming that tenants in an apartment building are family relatives simply because they have the same landlord. we can identify a relationship between [link] and [link] we can also identify a relationship between [link] and [link] in both of these cases someone with control over [link] created the dns records that brought the subdomains into existence. we cannot identify a meaningful relationship between [link] and [link] because we have no way of knowing whether such a relationship exists or if they are independent actors. if we were to accept your argument in favor of this approach it opens up a very large attack [link] finds sites (think blog hosting websites for example) where multiple independent parties use subdomains. this would be a great approach for targeted attacks against ngos, journalists, etc.",-1
thank you to all who have contributed to this discussion. i will be sending out notes on this discussion later today. this message closes the wg adoption call.,0
"it is a true pleasure dealing with pkix standards since there always seem to be several standards for doing the same thing :-( representation of private keys is one such item where the public counterpart sometimes (and for some algorithms [link]) is absent. i'm happy that the latter was properly addressed by jwk. fwiw, i have just updated the on-line jws/ct verifier with a jwk<->pem conversion utility: [link] btw, do you have any input to jws/ct ([link])? the authors are planning submitting this to the rfc editor. ",1
"a reminder to everyone: (i didn't want to say this n times in the thread) ""please remember we (all of us) are here trying to make the internet safer/better. people aren't actually trying to torpedo you/your-ideas/etc, we (all of us) are trying to work through possible problems/solutions in an effort to 'make the internet safer/better'"" so, with that in mind, please remember that before hitting 'send' we (all of us) need to verify that we are talking about the problems/solutions in the proposal and not upset about how our coffee is not hot right now :( (i need better coffee) this makes sense to me, sadly for the document, but happily for the discussion and the process/end-result which i hope will be better once we finish sorting out aspa docs. pending other wg-chair comments, we can do this in the next short while.",0
"this is great work that's fairly widely deployed, so i think the wg should adopt it.",1
sorry for the late response. i had a discussion with qin yesterday on the responsibility of designated experts. i think i can do it.,0
"draft-ietf-mno-qos-12 fails to account for the dynamic nature of modern networks. the recommended quality-of-service metrics lack adaptability to changing network conditions, rendering the proposed mechanisms ineffective in real-world scenarios. additional simulations under diverse network conditions are imperative to validate the draft's performance claims. without this validation, cannot back the draft's adoption.",-1
"yes. perhaps as joe suggested: exporter_eap_tls_msk and exporter_eap_tls_emsk, which seem simple enough. alan dekok.",0
"given that the author requested discussion on the list, i would have assumed that on-list followup of substantive issues (and for all i agree with ti, this is substantive) would be on list. in other working groups with a cleaner distinction between adopted and not-yet-adotped, and with other authors, i probably would have kept quiet even if i was surprised. in this case, the sequence of events looks liek sliding down an unfortuante slope.",-1
thank you for your comments and the discussion. all helped making the document better.,1
"well, yes, although i am not sure i have time to make progress on this very quickly. the aftermath of corona infection of a months ago definitely is not helping. and i am not a great fan of the idea of a whole wg waiting for me to finish this. :)",-1
"as far as i can tell this now leaks factually wrong ""averaged base rtt to a cdn"" number into even more [link] even if bob's recent opinion, that the average rtt to the _closest_ cdn is a suitable proxy for ""internet rtt"" is accepted, it at least needs to be described veridically as what it is, calling that number ""averaged base rtt to a cdn"" does not do justice to the source that number was generated from.",0
"an industry standard, and maawg recommendation, the domain portion in the ptr and in the email mail from should not only be resolvable,so far so good. but should have an accompanying url publicly accessible, so inquiries related to those domains can find a contact for the operators. nope. agreed. smtp should not depend on http nor any of the lines of development starting there, including urls. you know i struggle with oauth authentification that not only uses json for key/value pairs etcbut may also upgrade to http/2 or even quic, and not even the curl library (just let me say: !, please) implements these themselve but uses external libraries which themselve (!) use external libraries for the quic case. all that nothing but a pity. that is to say, how adorable this protocol was designed to still scale after decades, the ugliness produced by other participants of ietf soils it whatever you do. (i have my spoiler week.)",-1
"the suggested modifications in draft-ietf-xyz-crypto-14 introduce a significant performance overhead, as indicated by recent benchmarking results. the cryptographic primitives outlined in section 6.2 impose a 25% increase in processing time on average. this performance hit is unacceptable without clear evidence of commensurate security improvements. until a more balanced solution is proposed, cannot endorse the draft.",-1
"i support the wg adoption. answers to the questions posted by the chair: 1) will this new orf filter reduce routing information at key points? yes, the proposed approach prevents more routes sent to a pe whose vrf overflows. 2) should the wg consider this draft given it has an ipr claim or would the idr wg prefer another approach? yes, because the ipr has frand royalty-bearing licenses 3) is this draft ready to be adopted and refined as wg draft? yes. some questions to the author: 1) on page 3 (right below figure 1), you have: ""when the vrf of vpn1 in pe1 overflows, due to pe1 and other pes are not ibgp neighbors, bgp maximum prefix features cannot work, so the problem on pe2 cannot be known"" do you mean that ""the problem on pe1 cannot be known"" to others? 2) 2 does pe1 have preconfigured ""bgp maximum prefixes"" expected from others? if more than expected prefixes are received, is it because other pes' fault in sending trashing prefixes? or is it because the pe1 configuration error? 3) rd-orf route-refresh message is propagated to all other pes, do all the pes receiving the message stop sending ""that vpn route"" (as described in [link]",1
i support adoption of draft-white-tsvwg-l4sops and will help with the review of the document /ingemar,1
"i would love to see the stated objective of the l4s architecture realised. however, given the failure modes that have already been demonstrated, i am not convinced that the technology can deliver on that promise. furthermore, i believe that re-assigning ect(1) as an identifier for l4s traffic will end up being a de facto permanent assignment if this experiment goes ahead; resulting in the worst case in either an easily exploitable ""reverse evil bit"", or (more realistically) bleaching of the bit for non-approved traffic, thus creating a ""pay to play"" fast path instead. neither of these are desirable outcomes, but the risk of ending up with them is non-negligible; for this reason, i do not support advancing the l4s drafts in their current state. rather, if the experiment is to go ahead, it should be conducted using an alternative identifier (such as a diffserv code point).",-1
i strongly object to the adoption of the draft. there are 3 different flavors defined in the draft and all three flavors have significant difference in the forwarding plane behaviours. i would prefer the discussion on whether wg wants to work on all these flavors or only one of them to precede the adoption.,-1
"in my view, a call for adoption can be started at any time as it is only a check whether the wg wants to work on the topic (and that the topic fits the charter). in this case, if the wg thinks that the topic is worthless or too undefined, then indeed the document should not be adopted. but if the wg thinks that the topic is worth working on it and the i-d scope is well defined and workable, then let's adopt it. it is not a matter a time but more a matter of content. of course, we can expect multiple revisions before the wglc ;-)",0
"great thanks for this initiative, the page is very informative, synthetic and pleasant to read. with the alto wg contributors, we will be more than happy to update it. before doing so, if you think it makes sense, we plan to draft the potential additions on a wiki page, to ensure wg consensus and approval from the wg chairs and ad. we will proceed with collaborative editing and use the datatracker facilities. and indeed, we aim at keeping it concise and focused on mature work.",1
"thank you, that's really useful information.",1
"congratulations, janos! very well deserved!",1
"the following errata report has been submitted for rfc9067, ""a yang data model for routing policy"". you may review the report below and at: [link] type: technical reported by: kris lambrechts <kris@[link]> section: [link] grouping prefix",0
